{\rtf1\ansi\deff4
{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Helv;}{\f1\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f2\froman Symbol;}{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss Arial;}{\f5\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f6\fmodern Courier;}{\f7\froman Times;}{\f8\fmodern Courier New;}{\f9\fswiss Helvetica-Narrow;}{\f10\fnil Bold PS;}{\f11\fswiss Swiss;}{\f12\fnil MSIcons;}{\f13\fswiss Arial Narrow;}{\f14\fnil Letter Gothic MS;}{\f15\fmodern Lucida Sans Typewri;}{\f16\fnil HelveticaCondensed;}{\f17\fnil Wingdings;}{\f18\fnil LetterGothic;}{\f19\fnil Lucida Bright Math;}{\f20\fnil Times Roman;}{\f21\fnil Univers;}{\f22\fnil Univers Medium Cond;}{\f23\fnil Univers Condensed;}{\f24\fnil ZapfDingbats;}{\f25\fnil Lucida Stars;}{\f26\fnil CB Univers 67 Conde;}{\f27\fnil C Univers 57 Conden;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\pard\plain
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index')");DisableButton("btn_up")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} contents}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs20 App Studio
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 How to Use App Studio
\par \pard\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   App Studio Basics\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_resource_browser}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using the Dialog Editor\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_dialoged}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using the Menu Editor\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_menued}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using the Graphics Editor\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_graphed}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using the Accelerator Editor\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_acced}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using the String Editor\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_stringed}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using the Binary Editor\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_bined}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Working with Symbols\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_symbed}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Using ClassWizard\plain\fs20 {\v %topic_classwiz}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Other Help Topics
\par \pard\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Keyboard Shortcuts\plain\fs20 {\v %158WD.>shortcut}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}   Help in Brief\plain\fs20 {\v %FO4_P1>more}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Copyright Notice}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1N1VP10}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \b \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("copy")}\plain\b\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sa115\sl-215\li245 Copyright Notice
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 This is a preliminary document and may be changed substantially prior to final commercial release.  This document is provided for informational purposes only and Microsoft Corporation makes no warranties, either express or implied, in this document.  The entire risk of the use or the results of the use of this document remains with the user.  Companies, names, and data used in examples herein are fictitious unless otherwise noted. No part of this document may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose, without the express written permission of Microsoft Corporation.
\par \'a91993 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
\par Microsoft, MS, MS-DOS, XENIX, CodeView, QuickC, Visual C++, Win32c, Win32s, and Windows NT are registered trademarks and Windows and Visual Basic are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the USA and other countries.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Apple and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.
\par IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
\par Intel is a registered trademark of Intel Corporation.
\par Lotus is a registered trademark of Lotus Development Corporation.
\par Small Talk is a registered trademark of Xerox Corporation.
\par Tandy is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation.
\par Paintbrush is a trademark of Z-Soft Corporation\i 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \page
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} jumpcontents("psswh.hlp")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FZDX_D}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} accelerator table editor topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_accel')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 13ULI.J}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator table editor;App Studio editors}
Accelerator Table Editor Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2415\cellx5055\cellx5895\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn about the accelerator table editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Defining an accelerator table; uses of accelerators and the accelerator table editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J9MCG2}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create and edit accelerator resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a new accelerator table; opening the accelerator table editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 16D0MAO}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit the accelerator table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Adding, deleting, or changing accelerator key definitions\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v GNA6.2}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit accelerator properties\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the property page associated with the accelerator table editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2.QNLGG}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Type in accelerator values\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Legal values for accelerator keys\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1ZSLZ.B}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Associate a menu item with an accelerator key\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Linking accelerator keys and menu items; adding the name of the key to the menu item caption\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1VISUVV}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} using the accelerator table editor}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_accel')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_acced')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J9MCG2}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator table editor}
Using the Accelerator Table Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 An accelerator table is a Windows resource that contains a list of accelerator keys (also known as shortcut keys) and the command identifiers that are associated with them. A program can have more than one accelerator table.
\par Normally accelerators are used as keyboard shortcuts for program commands that are also available on a menu or toolbar. However, you can use the accelerator table to define key combinations for commands that don't have a user\f2 -\f4 interface object associated with them.
\par You can use Visual C++ ClassWizard to hook accelerator key commands to code. For more information, see \uldb Using ClassWizard.\plain\fs20 {\v topic_classwiz}
\par You can use the accelerator table editor to:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f11 \{bmc bm2.bmp\}\f4 \tab Add, delete, change, or browse the accelerator key assignments in your project.
\par \f11 \{bmc bm3.bmp\}\f4 \tab View and change the resource identifier associated with each entry in the accelerator table. The identifier is used to reference each accelerator table entry in program code.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f11 \{bmc bm4.bmp\}\f4 \tab Associate an accelerator key with a menu item.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} opening a new or existing accelerator table}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_accel')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_acced')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 16D0MAO}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator resources;accelerator table editor;opening a new or existing accelerator table}
\b Creating and Editing Accelerator Resources
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can call up the accelerator table editor to edit an existing accelerator table or create a new one. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To create a new accelerator table:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f11 \{bmc bm6.bmp\}\f4 \tab Click the New Accelerator Table button \{bmc bm7.mrb\} on the App Studio toolbar. 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \f11 \{bmc bm8.bmp\}\f4 \tab In the resource browser window, click New, or from the Resource menu, choose New. Then select Accelerator from the list of choices and click OK or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+R\fs20 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The accelerator table editor window appears.
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   Windows does not allow the creation of empty accelerator tables. If you create an accelerator table with no entries, it is deleted automatically when you save the file. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To edit an existing accelerator table:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Move to the resource browser window.
\par 2.\tab In the Type box, select Accelerator.
\par \tab A list of the accelerator tables in the current file appears in the Resources box.
\par 3.\tab In the Resources box, select the accelerator table you want to edit.
\par 4.\tab Choose Open. 
\par \tab Or select the resource and press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \tab Or double\f2 -\f4 click the resource.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Or from the Resource menu, choose Open.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The accelerator table editor window appears.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} editing the accelerator table}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_accel')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_acced')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} GNA6.2}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator table editor;adding entries to accelerator table;Clipboard: using;copying entries in accelerator table;deleting entries from accelerator table;editing the accelerator table;moving entries in accelerator table}
\b Editing the Accelerator Table
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you edit an existing accelerator table or create a new one, the accelerator table editor window appears. Use the accelerator table window to browse existing accelerator keys, delete keys, or select the new\f2 -\f4 item box (an empty rectangle) at the end of the list. Move to the accelerator table property page to edit or define values for each accelerator table entry.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To add an entry to the accelerator table:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the new\f2 -\f4 item box at the end of the list, or from the Resource menu, choose New Accelerator (\fs17 INS\fs20 ).
\par 2.\tab Move to the General property page to define the key. (Pressing \fs17 INS,\fs20  or typing the key name with the new\f2 -\f4 item box selected, moves you to the Properties window automatically.)
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   Make sure all accelerators you define are unique. When duplicate accelerator keys are assigned, only the first one works correctly.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To delete an entry from the accelerator table:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the entry you want to delete. Use the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  or \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  keys to select multiple entries. 
\par 2.\tab Choose Delete at the bottom of the accelerator table editor window, or from the Edit menu, choose Delete.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 DEL\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To move or copy an accelerator table entry from one resource script file to another:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open the accelerator table editor windows in both resource script files.
\par 2.\tab Use the drag and drop method.
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Use the Edit menu's Copy (or Cut) and Paste commands.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   You can also use the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key with drag and drop, or use the Edit menu, to copy keys within an accelerator table. However, exercise caution when doing so as this creates duplicate accelerator keys. App Studio does not prompt you to resolve accelerator key conflicts.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} editing accelerator properties}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_accel')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_acced')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2.QNLGG}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator table editor;accelerator table properties;editing accelerator properties;virtual key identifiers}
\b Editing Accelerator Properties
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the accelerator table's \uldb General property page\plain\fs20 {\v I9RZ4J} to edit the values for each accelerator.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 An accelerator can be either an ASCII value or virtual key. A virtual key is a device\f2 -\f4 independent identifier. The Key box on the General property page contains a list of standard virtual key identifiers.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To define or change the values for an accelerator table entry:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the entry you want to define or change.
\par 2.\tab Move to the General property page. In the Key box, type the name of the key, or choose from the list of virtual key identifiers.
\par \tab Select additional options as appropriate under Modifiers (\fs17 CTRL, ALT\fs20 , or \fs17 SHIFT\fs20 ) and Type (ASCII or VirtKey [virtual key]). When first created, a new key has the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  modifier selected.
\par  \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \tab Choose Next Key Typed and then type the key or key combination you want to enter. The Key box and the options under Modifiers and Type are updated automatically. 
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \b\fs18 \tab Note\plain\fs20   Accelerator values entered using the Next Key Typed command are always entered as virtual keys, if possible.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} typing in accelerator values}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_accel')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_acced')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1ZSLZ.B}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator keys;accelerator table editor;editing the accelerator table;typing in accelerator values;virtual key identifiers}
\b Typing in Accelerator Values
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The following are legal entries in the Key box of an accelerator table's \uldb General property page\plain\fs20 {\v I9RZ4J}:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f11 \{bmc bm9.bmp\}\f4 \tab An integer between 0 and 255 in decimal, hexadecimal, or octal format. The setting of the Type property determines if the number is an ASCII or virtual key value. 
\par \tab Single\f2 -\f4 digit numbers are always interpreted as the corresponding key, rather than as ASCII values. To enter an ASCII value from 0 to 9, precede it with two zeros (for example, 006).
\par \f11 \{bmc bm10.bmp\}\f4 \tab A single keyboard character. Uppercase A\f2 -\f4 Z or the numbers 0 through 9 can be either ASCII or virtual key values; any other character is ASCII only.
\par \f11 \{bmc bm11.bmp\}\f4 \tab A single keyboard character in the range A\f2 -\f4 Z (uppercase only), preceded by a caret (^) \f11 \{bmc bm12.bmp\}\f4  for example, \f15\fs19 ^C\f4\fs20 . This enters the ASCII value of the key when it is pressed with the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key held down. 
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \b\fs18 \tab Note\plain\fs20   When entering an ASCII value, the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  and \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  modifiers are not available. You cannot use a control\f2 -\f4 key combination entered with a caret to create a virtual accelerator key.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f11 \{bmc bm13.bmp\}\f4 \tab Any valid virtual key identifier. The Key box on the General property page contains a list of standard virtual key identifiers.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} binary data editor topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_bined')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} N5UWRL}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio editors;binary data editor}
\b Binary Data Editor Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn about the binary editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Using the binary data editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 3CIG03Y}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Create a new data resource or custom resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using standard .RC file syntax and the File menu Set Includes command to add a custom resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1K03ZN5}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Open a resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Opening the binary data editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 26CX_X8}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Edit a resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Editing a resource at the binary level\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 4RU3A9}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} using the binary data editor}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_bined')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_bined')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3CIG03Y}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} binary data editor}
Using the Binary Data Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The App Studio binary data editor allows you to edit a resource at the binary level in either hexadecimal or ASCII format.
\par You should use the binary editor only when you need to view or make minor changes to custom resources or resource types not supported by App Studio. 
\par \b\fs18 Caution\fs20   \plain\fs20 Editing nondata resources in the binary data editor can corrupt the resource. A corrupted resource can cause App Studio and Windows to behave in unexpected ways.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} creating a new data resource or custom resource}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_bined')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_bined')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1K03ZN5}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} binary data editor;creating a new data resource or custom resource;custom resources;data resources}
\b Creating a New Data Resource or Custom Resource
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You create new custom or data resources by placing them in a separate file using normal .RC file syntax, and then include the file with the File menu Set Includes command. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \cf1 To create a new custom or data resource:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 1.\tab Use Visual Workbench to create an .RC file that contains the custom or data resource. 
\par \tab Custom data can be entered in an .RC file as null-terminated quoted strings, or as integers in decimal, hexadecimal, or octal format. For more information see the \i Windows Software Development Kit Programmer's Reference Volume 4\plain\fs20 . 
\par 2.\tab From the App Studio file menu, choose Set Includes. 
\par The Set Includes dialog box appears.
\par 3.\tab In the Compile-Time Directives box, type an include statement that gives the name of the file containing your custom resource. For example:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f8\fs18 #include mydata.rc
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 \tab Make sure the syntax and spelling of what you enter is correct.  The contents of the Compile-Time Directives box is inserted into the resource script file exactly as you type it.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Choose OK to record your changes. The custom or data resource is included in your application at compile time.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} opening the binary editor}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_bined')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_bined')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 26CX_X8}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} binary data editor}
\b Opening the Binary Editor 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To open a resource for binary editing:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Move to the resource browser window.
\par 2.\tab In the Type box, choose the resource type you want to edit.
\par 3.\tab In the Resources box, select the specific resource you want to edit.
\par 4.\tab From the Resource menu, choose Edit Binary Data .
\par \tab Shortcut key: \fs17 CTRL+B\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The binary data window appears.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note  \plain\fs20 If you use the resource browser window to open a resource whose format App Studio does not recognize (such as a VERSION, RCDATA, or custom resource), App Studio automatically opens the resource in the binary data editor.
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   If you want to use the binary data editor on a resource already being edited in another App Studio editor window, close the other editor window first.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} editing data}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_bined')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_bined')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4RU3A9}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} binary data editor;editing binary data}
\b Editing Data\f13 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To edit a resource in the binary data editor:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the byte you want to edit. 
\par \tab The \fs17 TAB\fs20  key moves the focus between the hexadecimal and ASCII sections of the editor window. \fs17 PAGEUP\fs20  and \fs17 PAGEDOWN\fs20  move you through the resource one screen at a time. You can also move to the top of the resource with \fs17 CTRL+HOME\fs20  and to the end with \fs17 CTRL+END\fs20 .
\par 2.\tab Type the new value.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} string editor topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_stringed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} B7N56U}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio editors;string editor}
\b String Editor Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn about using the string editor and string tables\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the string table editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 22Q4F4C}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new string table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Opening a new or existing string table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 8LHMB1}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Find a string table entry\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the string table editor's Find command\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v N7FO2}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Add, delete, and move a string\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Adding, deleting, or moving a string\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1_FZ.JP}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Edit a string's properties\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Editing a string; adding special characters to a string\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1BMRFVO}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} using the string editor}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_stringed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_stringed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 22Q4F4C}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing the string table;string editor overview;string tables}
Using the String Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The App Studio string editor is a window that, along with its associated property page, allows you to edit or add to a program's standard Windows string table resource. 
\par You can use the string editor to:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm14.bmp\}\tab Create a new string table.
\par \{bmc bm15.bmp\}\tab View the string segments in a program.
\par \{bmc bm16.bmp\}\tab Add or delete individual strings, or move them from one segment to another.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm17.bmp\}\tab Change a string, or its name or value.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b String Tables
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 In programming for Windows, strings can be stored in a resource type called a string table. An application can have only one string table. 
\par In a string table, strings are grouped into segments, or blocks, of 16 strings each. The segment a string belongs to is determined by the value of its identifier; for example, strings with identifiers of 0 to 15 are in one segment, strings with values of 16 to 31 are in a second segment, and so on. Thus, to move a string from one segment to another you need to change its identifier.
\par Individual string segments are loaded on demand in order to conserve memory. For this reason, programmers usually try to group strings into logical groupings of sixteen or less and then use each group or segment only when it's needed. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} opening a new or existing string table}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_stringed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_stringed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8LHMB1}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing the string table;opening a new or existing string table;string editor;string tables}
\b Opening a New or Existing String Table
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You use App Studio to create your application's string table, or use the string table editor to edit an existing one. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To create a new string table:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm18.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the string table button \{bmc bm19.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm20.bmp\}\tab In the resource browser window, click New, or from the Resource menu, choose New (\fs17 CTRL+R\fs20 ). Then select String from the list of choices and click or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The string editor window appears.
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   Windows will not allow you to create empty string tables. If you create a string table with no entries, it is deleted automatically when you save the file.
\par Once you create your application's string table, you can use the App Studio resource browser window to view a list of string segments in the string table and to jump to the beginning of a selected segment.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To open an existing string table for editing:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the resource browser window, use the Type box to select the String Table resource type.
\par \tab - Or -
\par \tab Use the string table button \{bmc bm19.mrb\} to open an existing string table.
\par \tab A list of the string segments in your application's string table appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Resources box, select the string segment you want to edit. 
\par \tab Selecting a specific segment of the string table allows you to easily jump to a specific group of strings. However, opening the string editor gives you access to the entire string table.
\par 3.\tab Choose Open. 
\par \tab Or select the resource and press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \tab Or double-click the resource.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Or from the Resource menu, choose Open.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The string editor window appears.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} finding a string table entry}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_stringed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_stringed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} N7FO2}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing the string table;string editor;string tables}
\b Finding a String Table Entry
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The string table editor includes a Find command to let you quickly locate strings in the string table by either their caption or resource identifier.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To find a string in the string table:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open the string table by selecting it in the Type box of the resource browser window and then clicking any of the segments listed in the Resources box.
\par 2.\tab At the bottom of the string editor window, choose Find. 
\par \tab The Find String dialog box appears. 
\par 3.\tab In the Find What box, type the caption text or resource identifier of the string you want to find. Turn the Match Case option on or off as appropriate.
\par 4.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 . 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab If a string or its identifier in the string table matches what you typed, it is selected.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} adding, deleting, and moving a string}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_stringed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_stringed')")}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1_FZ.JP}
{\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} adding a string;deleting a string;editing the string table;moving a string;string editor;strings}
\b Adding, Deleting, and Moving a String\cf2 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20\cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To add a string table entry:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the new-item box (an empty rectangle) at the end of a string segment.
\par 2.\tab Type the new string.
\par \tab Focus shifts to the Properties window as you start typing, and the string is given the next identifier in sequence.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select an existing entry in the string table.
\par 2.\tab Choose the New command at the bottom of the string editor window, or from the Resource menu, choose New String (\fs17 INS\fs20 ).
\par \tab A new string is created and given the next available identifier after the currently selected string. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Type the new string.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   Null strings are not allowed in Windows string tables. If you create an entry in the string table that is a null string, the entry is deleted when you close the string editor. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To delete a string in the string editor:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the string you want to delete.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose Delete at the bottom of the string editor window, or from the Edit menu, choose Delete (\fs17 DEL\fs20 ).
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To move a string from one segment to another:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the string you want to move.
\par 2.\tab Move to the General property page. In the ID box, change the string's value so that it falls in the range you want.
\par \tab For example, to move a string with a name of \f6\fs17 IDS_MYSTRING\f4\fs20  and a value of \f6 100\f4  to a segment in the 200 range, type the following in the ID box:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f6\fs18 IDS_MYSTRING=201\f15 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 3.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to record the change.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To move a string from one resource script (.RC) file to another:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open the string editor windows in both resource script files.
\par 2.\tab Use the drag and drop method.
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Use the File menu's Cut and Paste commands.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   If the moved string's symbol name or value conflicts with an existing identifier in the destination file, the symbol name is changed (if a symbol by that name already exists) or the symbol value is changed (if a symbol with that value already exists).
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} editing a string's properties}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_stringed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_stringed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1BMRFVO}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing the string table;properties;property pages;string editor}
\b Editing a String's Properties
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20\cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To change a string or its identifier:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the string you want to edit.
\par 2.\tab Move to the string's \uldb General property page.\plain\fs20 {\v 18C.I46}
\par 3.\tab In the Caption box, modify the string itself.
\par \tab In the ID box, modify the string's identifier:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm21.bmp\}\tab Type in a new symbol name or choose one from the list.
\par \{bmc bm22.bmp\}\tab Change a string's value by typing the symbol name followed by an equal sign and the new value; for example
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535\tx535 \f15\fs18 \tab IDS_ERROR_MSG=2350
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 \tab For more information on editing symbols, see the \uldb Using the Symbol Browser\plain\fs20 {\v topic_symbed}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To add formatting or special characters to a string:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm23.bmp\}\tab Use the standard escape sequences shown below:
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b\ul To Get This:\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Type This:\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 New line\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \'5cn (or press \fs17 CTRL+ENTER\fs20  when typing in the string)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Carriage return\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \'5cr\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Tab\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \'5ct (or press \fs17 CTRL+TAB\fs20  when typing the string)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Backslash (\'5c)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \'5c\'5c\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 ASCII character\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \'5c\i ddd\plain\fs20  (octal notation)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1825\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Alert (bell)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \'5ca\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} symbol browser topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} topic_symbed}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio editors;browsing symbols;symbol browser}
\b Symbol Browser Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx4915\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx4915\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Change a symbol name or value\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Editing a symbol or symbol name; changing a symbol's numerical value\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v D5.VLF}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx4915\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Manage symbols with the symbol browser\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating new symbols; changing unassigned symbols; using the View Use command\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11YA0AY}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx4915\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Learn about symbol name and value restrictions\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Name and value limitations when creating symbols\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *4LQVE7}\plain\uldb\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} change a symbol name or value}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D5.VLF}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} change;symbol name;symbol value}
\plain\b\fs20 Change a Symbol Name or Value
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\} Changing a Symbol or Symbol Name\plain\fs20 {\v %PX5EW3}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\} Changing a Symbol's Numerical Value\plain\fs20 {\v %1NCM9AP}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 A symbol is an identifier that consists of a text string (name) mapped to an integer value. Symbols provide a descriptive way of referring to resources and user-interface objects in your source code, and also while you're working with them in App Studio.
\par When you create a new resource or resource object, App Studio provides a default name for the resource (for example, \fs17 IDC_RADIO1\fs20 ) and assigns a value to it. The name-plus-value definition is stored in RESOURCE.H,\fs17  \fs20 a file generated by App Studio.
\par In working with symbols from within App Studio, you can 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm25.bmp\}\tab Change the symbol associated with a resource or object.
\par \{bmc bm26.bmp\}\tab Change a symbol's name or value in the Symbol Browser (if the symbol hasn't been used yet) or in the Properties window (if the symbol is already in use by a single object).
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm27.bmp\}\tab Use the Symbol Browser to browse existing symbols, add new symbols, and change or delete unused symbols. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\fs20   \plain\fs20 When you are copying resources or resource objects from one .RC file to another, App Studio may change the transferred resource's symbol value, or symbol name and value, to avoid conflicts with symbol names or values in the existing file.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changing a Symbol or Symbol Name}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} PX5EW3}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;change a symbol name or value;symbol browser}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v D5.VLF}\plain\b\fs20   Changing a Symbol or Symbol Name 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you create a new resource or resource object, App Studio assigns it a default name\{bmc bm28.bmp\}for example, \f15\fs18 IDD_DIALOG1\f4\fs20 . Use the Properties window to change the default symbol name or to change the name of any symbol already associated with a resource.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change a resource's symbol name: 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open the Symbol Browser, select the symbol you want to change, and when the Change Symbol dialog box appears, choose View Use. 
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \tab Select the resource and move to the appropriate property page (usually the General property page), or type \fs17 CTRL+Q\fs20  to move directly to the property page ID box.
\par \tab This moves you to the property page of the resource where the symbol is used.
\par 2.\tab In the ID box, type a new symbol name or select from the list of existing symbols.
\par 3.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to accept the change. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab If you typed a new symbol name, App Studio assigns it a value automatically.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changing a Symbol's Numerical Value}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1NCM9AP}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;change a symbol name or value;symbol browser}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v D5.VLF}\plain\b\fs20   Changing a Symbol's Numerical Value
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Usually you can let App Studio assign the numerical value associated with the symbol names you define. However, there may be times when you need to change the symbol value associated with a resource or value\{bmc bm29.bmp\}if, for example, you want a group of controls or a series of related strings in the string table to have sequential IDs. 
\par For symbols already associated with a single resource, use the Properties window to change the symbol value. For symbols associated with more than one resource or object, make the changes directly in RESOURCE.H using a text editor. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change a symbol value using the Properties window (applies only to symbols assigned to a single resource or object):
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open the Symbol Browser, select the symbol you want to change, and when the Change Symbol dialog box appears, choose View Use.
\par \tab - Or -
\par \tab Select the resource and move to the appropriate property page (usually the General property page), or type \fs17 CTRL+Q\fs20  to move directly to the property page ID box.
\par \tab This moves you to the property page of the resource where the symbol is used.
\par 2.\tab In the ID box, type the symbol name followed by an equals sign and an integer. For example,
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f8\fs18 IDC_EDITNAME=5100
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 3.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to accept the change.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The new value is stored in the symbol header file the next time you save. Only the symbol name remains in the ID box; the equals sign and value are not displayed after they are validated. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the numeric value of a symbol assigned to more than one resource or object:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab End your App Studio editing session by closing the current resource file or exiting App Studio.
\par 2.\tab Load RESOURCE.H into Visual Workbench and make the necessary changes.
\par 3. Save RESOURCE.H.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The next time you open the project's .RC file in App Studio, App Studio uses the new symbol values
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   While editing RESOURCE.H take special care not to define duplicate symbols. App Studio can only detect duplicate symbols if they are created from within App Studio.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} managing symbols with the symbol browser}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11YA0AY}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;symbol browser;symbols}
\b Managing Symbols with the Symbol Browser
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating New Symbols\plain\fs20 {\v %3XX9LN}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Changing Unassigned Symbols\plain\fs20 {\v %13NAIXO}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Opening the Resource Editor for a Symbol\plain\fs20 {\v %CE4YOB}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 As your application grows in size and sophistication, so do the number of resources and symbols that must be created. Large numbers of symbols scattered throughout several files can be difficult to keep track of. The Symbol Browser simplifies symbol management by offering a central tool through which you can:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm30.bmp\}\tab Quickly browse existing symbol definitions to see the value of each symbol, which symbols are being used, and the resources assigned to each.
\par \{bmc bm31.bmp\}\tab Create new symbols.
\par \{bmc bm32.bmp\}\tab Change the name and value of a symbol that is not in use.
\par \{bmc bm33.bmp\}\tab Delete a symbol if it is not being used.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm34.bmp\}\tab Move quickly to the appropriate App Studio resource editor where the symbol is being used with the View Use command.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To access the Symbol Browser dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm35.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the Symbol Browser button \{bmc bm36.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm37.bmp\}\tab From the Edit menu, choose Symbols (\fs17 CTRL+I\fs20 ).
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating New Symbols}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3XX9LN}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;creating symbols;managing symbols with the symbol browser;symbol browser;symbols;View Use command}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11YA0AY}\plain\b\fs20   Creating New Symbols
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you are beginning a new project, you may find it convenient to map out the symbol names you need before creating the resources they will be assigned to. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new symbol using the Symbol Browser:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the Symbol Browser dialog box, choose New.
\par \tab The New Symbol dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Name box, type a symbol name.\scaps 
\par \plain\fs20 3.\tab Accept the symbol value assigned by App Studio, or, in the Value box, type a new value. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Choose OK or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to place the new symbol into the symbol list. The symbol appears in alphabetical order.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 If you enter a symbol name that already exists, a message box appears stating that a symbol with that name is already defined. You cannot define two or more symbols with the same name, but you can define different symbols with the same numeric value.
\par For additional information on symbol names and values, see \uldb Symbol Name Restrictions\plain\fs20 {\v C4BSPM} and \uldb Symbol Value Restrictions.\plain\fs20 {\v FTFZG}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changing Unassigned Symbols}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 13NAIXO}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;changing unassigned symbols;managing symbols with the symbol browser;symbol browser;symbols}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11YA0AY}\plain\b\fs20   Changing Unassigned Symbols
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 While in the Symbol Browser you can edit or delete existing symbols that are not already assigned to a resource or object. You can change existing symbols that are in use in only one place by using the Change command to move to the appropriate resource's property page or by moving to the property page directly. A check mark in the In Use column of the SymbolBrowser indicates that the symbol is being used.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 If Show Read-Only Symbols is selected, read-only symbols are also displayed. Editable symbols are displayed as bold text and read-only symbols are displayed as normal text. You cannot change read-only symbols.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To change an unassigned symbol using the Symbol Browser:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the unassigned symbol you want and choose Change.
\par \tab The Change Symbol dialog box appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Edit the symbol's name or value in the boxes provided, then press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to accept the change.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To delete an unassigned symbol using the Symbol Browser:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm38.bmp\}\tab Select the unassigned symbol that you want to delete and choose Delete or press the \fs17 DEL\fs20  key.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note  \plain\fs18 Before deleting an unused symbol in a resource file, make sure it is not used elsewhere in the program or by resource files included at compile time.\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Opening the Resource Editor for a Given Symbol}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CE4YOB}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} symbol browser;symbols;View Use command}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11YA0AY}\plain\b\fs20   Opening the Resource Editor for a Given Symbol
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you are browsing symbols in the Symbol Editor you may want more information on how a particular symbol is used. The View Use command provides a quick way to get this information. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To move to the resource editor where a symbol is being used:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the symbol you want in the Name box of the Symbol Browser.
\par 2.\tab Select the resource that interests you in the Used by box.
\par 3.\tab Choose View Use.
\par \tab The editor for the resource you selected appears.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4LQVE7}
\pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol Name Restrictions\plain\fs20 {\v %C4BSPM}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol Value Restrictions\plain\fs20 {\v %FTFZG}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 There are several restrictions you should be aware of when using symbol names and values. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol Name Restrictions}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} C4BSPM}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;names: symbol;symbol browser;symbol names;symbols}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 4LQVE7}\plain\b\fs20   Symbol Name Restrictions
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 All symbol names must be unique within the scope of the application. This prevents conflicting symbol definitions in the header files. Legal characters for a symbol name include \f15\fs18 A-Z\f4\fs20 , \f15\fs18 a-z\f4\fs20 , \f15\fs18 0-9\f4\fs20 , and the underscore (\f15\fs18 _\f4\fs20 ). Symbol names cannot begin with a number, are case insensitive, and are limited to 247 characters.
\par Symbol names can be used more than once in your application. For example, if you are writing a data entry program with several dialogs containing an edit box for a person's Social Security number, you may want to give all the related edit boxes a symbol name of \fs17 IDC_SSN\fs20 . To do this, you can define a single symbol and use it as many times as needed.
\par While it is not required, symbol names are often given descriptive prefixes which indicate the kind of resource or object they represent. The Microsoft Foundation Class Library uses the following symbol naming conventions:
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2295\cellx3015\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b\ul Category\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Prefix\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Use\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2295\cellx3015\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 IDR_
\par\intbl IDD_
\par\intbl IDC_
\par\intbl IDI_
\par\intbl IDB_\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Accelerator or Menu resource
\par\intbl Dialog
\par\intbl Cursor
\par\intbl Icon
\par\intbl Bitmap\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2295\cellx3015\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Menu Items and Commands\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 IDM_
\par\intbl ID_\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Menu item
\par\intbl Command\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2295\cellx3015\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Controls and Child Windows\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 IDC_\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Control\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2295\cellx3015\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Strings\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 IDS_\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 String in the string table\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} symbol name and value restrictions}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_symbed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_symbed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FTFZG}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing symbols;symbol browser;symbol values;symbols;value restrictions: symbols}
\ul \b\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 4LQVE7}\plain\b\fs20   Symbol Value Restrictions
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 In App Studio a symbol value can be any integer expressed in the normal manner for \f15\fs18 #define\f4\fs20  preprocessor directives. Here are some examples of symbol values:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 18
\par 4001
\par 0x0012
\par -3456
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 Symbol values for resources can be in the range from 0 to 32767. Symbol values for resource objects (such as dialog box controls or individual strings in the string table) can be from 0 to 65534 or from -32768 to 32767.
\par In App Studio you cannot define symbol values using other symbol strings. For example, the following symbol definition is not supported:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 #define IDC_MYEDIT  IDC_OTHEREDIT  //not supported
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 You also cannot use preprocessor macros with arguments as value definitions. For example,
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 #define   IDD_ABOUT  ID(7) //not supported
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 is not a valid expression in App Studio regardless of what \f15\fs18 ID\f4\fs20  evaluates to at compile time.
\par If you have an existing file containing symbols defined with expressions, see \uldb Using Read-Only or Calculated Symbols\plain\fs20 {\v XRHZ6S} for instructions on how to include the symbols as read-only symbols.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} menu editor topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1RUG9L3}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio editors;menu editor}
\b Menu Editor Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn to work with menus and menu items\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the menu editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1ZC4U2O}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Create and edit menu resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a new menu resource; editing an existing menu resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1JGG6YV}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Create menus or menu items\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating drop-down or cascading menus; adding a menu item\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v _C3ZWZ}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Select menus or menu items\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Selecting in the menu editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 21HS2K3}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Move and copy menus or menu items\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Moving or copying menu items\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v IX6WUK}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 View the menu resource as a drop-down menu\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the Resouce menu View as Popup command\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 7BABUF}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2175\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Associate a menu item with an accelerator key \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Linking accelerator keys and menu items; adding the name of the key to the menu item caption\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1VISUVV}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \f5\fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} working with menus and menu items}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1ZC4U2O}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} menu editor}
\f4\b\fs20 Working with Menus and Menu Items
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can create and edit menus in App Studio by working directly with a menu bar that closely resembles the one in your finished application. 
\par In addition, you can use the Visual C++ ClassWizard to hook menu items up to code. For more information, see \uldb ClassWizard.\plain\fs20 {\v topic_classwiz}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} creating and editing menu resources}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1JGG6YV}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} creating menu resources;editing menu resources;menu editor;menu resources;menus}
\b Creating and Editing Menu Resources
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20\cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To create a new menu resource:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm39.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the New Menu button \{bmc bm40.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm41.bmp\}\tab In the resource browser window, click New, or from the Resource menu, choose New (\fs17 CTRL+R\fs20 ). Then select Menu from the list of choices and click OK or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The menu editor window appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To edit an existing menu resource:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Move to the resource browser window.
\par 2.\tab In the Type box, select Menu.
\par \tab A list of the menu resources in the current file appears in the Resources box.
\par 3.\tab In the Resources box, select the menu resource you want to edit.
\par 4.\tab Choose Open. 
\par \tab Or select the resource and press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \tab Or double-click the resource.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Or from the Resource menu, choose Open.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The menu editor window appears.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} creating menus or menu items}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _C3ZWZ}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} cascading menus;drop-down menus;hierarchical menus;menu editor;menus}
\b Creating Menus or Menu Items
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20\cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To create a drop-down menu on the menu bar:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the new-item box (an empty rectangle) on the menu bar to select it. You can also move to the new-item box with the \fs17 TAB\fs20  (move right) and \fs17 SHIFT+TAB\fs20  (move left) keys or the right and left arrow keys.
\par 2.\tab Type the name of the menu. When you start typing, focus automatically shifts to the \uldb General property page,\plain\fs20 {\v Q9EOR4} and the text you type appears both in the Caption box and in the menu-editor window. 
\par \tab You can define a mnemonic key that allows the user to select the drop-down menu by simultaneously pressing a single letter and the \fs17 ALT \fs20 key. You specify the letter that represents the mnemonic character by placing an ampersand (&) in front of it. Make sure all of the mnemonics on a menu are unique.
\par \tab Once you have given the menu a name on the menu bar, the new-item box shifts to the right, and another new-item box opens below for adding menu items.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \b \tab \fs18 Note\plain\fs20   To create a single-item menu on the menu bar, clear the Popup option on the General property page.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To create a menu item:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab First create a drop-down menu according to the steps outlined in the previous procedure. 
\par 2.\tab Select the menu's new-item box. 
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \tab Select an existing menu item and press \fs17 INS\fs20 . The new-item box is inserted before the selected item.
\par 3.\tab Type the name of the menu item. When you start typing, focus automatically shifts to the \uldb General property page,\plain\fs20 {\v Q9EOR4} and the text you type appears in the Caption box.
\par \tab You can define a mnemonic key that allows the user to select the drop-down menu by simultaneously pressing a single letter and the \fs17 ALT \fs20 key. You specify the letter that represents the mnemonic character by placing an ampersand (&) in front of it.
\par 4.\tab In the ID box, type in the menu item ID, or select an existing command identifier. If you do not enter an ID, App Studio will enter it for you.
\par 5.\tab On the General property page, select the menu item styles that apply. 
\par \tab For information on what each menu item style means, click the Help button on the property page.
\par 6.\tab In the General property page's Prompt box, type the prompt string you want to appear in your application's status bar. This feature is only available with Microsoft Foundation Class Library resource script (.RC) files. 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab This creates an entry in the string table with the same resource identifier as the menu item you created.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 7.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to complete the menu item. The new-item box is re-selected so you can easily create additional menu items.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To create a cascading (hierarchical) menu:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the new-item box on the drop-down menu where you want the cascading menu to appear. Then type the name of the menu item that, when selected, causes the cascading menu to appear.
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \tab Select an existing menu item that you want to be the parent item of the cascading menu.
\par 2.\tab On the General property page, select the Popup check box. The menu item is marked with the cascading menu symbol \{bmc missing.bmp\}, and a new-item box appears to the right.
\par 3.\tab Add additional menu items to the cascading menu according to the instructions in the previous procedure.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} selecting menus or menu items}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 21HS2K3}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} menu editor;menus;selecting menus or menu items}
\b Selecting Menus or Menu Items
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To\cf1  \plain\fs20 select a drop-down or cascading menu and display its menu items:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm43.bmp\}\tab Click the menu caption on the menu bar or the parent item of the cascading menu. Then click the menu item you want.
\par \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm44.bmp\}\tab Move to the menu caption with the \fs17 TAB\fs20  (move right) and \fs17 SHIFT+TAB\fs20  (move left) keys or the right and left arrow keys.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To select one or more menu items:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the drop-down or cascading menu you want.
\par \tab Its menu items are displayed.
\par 2.\tab Click to select a menu item, or hold down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key to select multiple menu items. Holding down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key and clicking an already-selected menu item deselects it.
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \tab With the mouse pointer outside the menu, hold down the left mouse button and draw a selection box around the menu items you want to select.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} moving and copying menus or menu items}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IX6WUK}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Clipboard: using;copying menus or menu items;menu editor;menus;moving}
\b Moving and Copying Menus or Menu Items
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The simplest way to edit a menu resource is to use the drag and drop method. You can also use the Cut, Copy, and Paste commands on the App Studio \uldb Edit menu.\plain\fs20 {\v EETKJI}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To move or copy drop-down menus or menu items using drag and drop:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Drag (or to copy, hold down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key and drag) the item you want to:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm45.bmp\}\tab A new location in the current menu.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm46.bmp\}\tab A different menu. (You can navigate into other menus by dragging the mouse cursor over them.)
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Drop the menu item when the insertion guides show the position you want.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To move or copy menus or menu items using the App Studio Edit menu:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select one or more menus or menu items.
\par 2.\tab From the Edit menu, choose Cut (to move) or Copy (to copy) the objects. You can also use the keyboard shortcuts for Cut (\fs17 CTRL+X\fs20  or \fs17 SHIFT+DEL\fs20 ) and Copy (\fs17 CTRL+C \fs20 or\fs17  SHIFT+INS\fs20 ).
\par 3.\tab If you are moving the items to another menu resource or resource script file, make that menu editor window active.
\par 4.\tab Select the menu or menu item you want. The moved or copied item is placed before the item you select.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 5.\tab From the Edit menu, choose Paste.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} viewing the menu resource as a drop-down menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7BABUF}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} drop-down menus;menu editor;menu resources;menus;View as Popup command}
\b Viewing the Menu Resource as a Drop-down Menu
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Normally, when you are working in the menu editor, a menu resource is displayed as a menu bar with top-level menu items and drop-down menus. However, you may want to store a single menu as a separate menu resource so you can add it as a drop-down menu to your application's main menu bar while the program is running. To see what the separate menu resource looks like as a drop-down menu, use the menu editor's View as Popup command. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \plain\fs20 To\cf1  \plain\fs20 view a menu resource as a drop-down menu:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm47.bmp\}\tab From the Resource menu, choose View as Popup.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+U\fs20  
\par \tab To change back to the menu-bar view, choose View as Popup again.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} associating a menu item with an accelerator key}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_menued')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_menued')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1VISUVV}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} accelerator keys;accelerator table editor;associating a menu item with an accelerator key;menu editor;menus}
\b Associating a Menu Item with an Accelerator Key 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Many times you want a menu item and a keyboard combination to issue the same program command. You do this by assigning the same resource identifier to the menu item and to an entry in your application's accelerator table. You then edit the menu item's caption to show the name of the accelerator key.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To associate a menu item with an accelerator key:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the \uldb menu editor,\plain\fs20 {\v topic_menued} select the menu item you want and move to the General property page.
\par 2.\tab In the ID box, give the menu item a descriptive command identifier (for example, ID_FILE_OPEN).
\par 3.\tab In the Caption box, add the name of the accelerator key to the menu caption:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm48.bmp\}\tab Following the menu caption, type the escape sequence for the \fs17 tab\fs20  key (\'5ct), so that all of the menu's accelerator keys are left-aligned.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm49.bmp\}\tab Type the name of the modifier key (\fs17 CTRL, ALT, \fs20 or\fs17  SHIFT\fs20 ) followed by a plus sign and the name, letter, or symbol of the additional key.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab For example, if you assign \fs17 CTRL+O\fs20  to the File menu's Open command, you modify the menu's caption so that it looks like this:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f8\fs18 Open\'5ctCtrl+\fs17 O
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 \tab The menu item in the menu editor is updated to reflect the new caption as you type it.
\par 4.\tab Create the accelerator table entry and assign it the same identifier as the menu item. Use a key combination that you think will be easy to remember.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab For more information on creating and naming accelerator resources, see \uldb Accelerator Editor.\plain\fs20 {\v topic_acced}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} shortcuts}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2ARKF69}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("shortcut")}\plain\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b Shortcuts
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Topic\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Task\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Press \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Manage files\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new file\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+N\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new resource script\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F11\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open a file\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+O\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Save the current resource script\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+S, SHIFT+F12\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Save resource script under different name or as different type\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F12\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Edit\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Undo an action\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+Z\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Redo the last undo\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+A\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Delete to the Clipboard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+X, SHIFT+DEL\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Copy to the Clipboard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+C, CTRL+INS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Paste from the Clipboard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+V, SHIFT+INS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Delete\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 DEL\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 View and change symbols\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+I\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Create and edit resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+R\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create new resource in resource browser window, string editor, accelerator editor, Symbol Browser\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+N\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create resource of type currently highlighted in the resource browser window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+1\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new menu\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+2\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new cursor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+3\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new icon\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+4\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new bitmap\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+5\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new string table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+6\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create a new accelerator table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+7\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Delete resource in resource browser window, string editor, accelerator editor, Symbol Browser\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+D\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open an existing resource selected in the resource browser window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ENTER, ALT+P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open a resource for binary editing\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+B\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Activate resource's Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+ENTER, ENTER\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Connect user-interface objects to code (invoke ClassWizard)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+W\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Test a dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+T\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open Properties window and select Styles page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+Y\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open Properties window and select General page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+E\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open Properties window and select ID control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+Q\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Manage windows\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Hide or show the graphics palette or control palette\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F2\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Hide or show the Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+F2\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Activate next window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+F6, CTRL+TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Activate previous window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+SHIFT+F6, CTRL+SHIFT+TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Close current window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+F4\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Activate the Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+ENTER, ALT+F6, ENTER \fs20 (except in resource browser window)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Activate resource browser window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+F2\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Scroll vertically\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 PAGE UP, PAGE DOWN\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Scroll horizontally\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+PAGE UP, CTRL+PAGE DOWN\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move resource browser wondow focus to the Resources box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move resource browser window focus to the Type box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Shift resource browser focus window between Resources and Type boxes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 TAB, SHIFT+TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Use the Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Activate Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+ENTER\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Select next page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 PAGE DOWN\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Select previous page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 PAGE UP\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move to next field\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move to previous field\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Hide or show the Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+F2\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open Properties window and select Styles page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+Y\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open Properties window and select General page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+E\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open Properties window and select ID control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+Q\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Accept changes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ENTER\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Cancel change\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ESC\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Edit graphics\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Increase the magnification factor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 > (SHIFT+PERIOD)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Decrease the magnification factor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 < (SHIFT+COMMA)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use framed-rectangle tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 R\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use filled-rectangle tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+R\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use framed rounded-rectangle tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 N\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use filled rounded-rectangle tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+N\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use framed-ellipse tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 E\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use filled-ellipse tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+E\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use pencil tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use eraser tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use brush tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 D\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use selection tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 S\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use fill tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use line tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 L\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use airbrush tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 A\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Pick up color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 COMMA\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Increase brush size\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 PLUS, EQUAL SIGN\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Decrease brush size\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 MINUS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use single-pixel brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 PERIOD\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Flip along horizontal axis\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 X\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Flip along vertical axis\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 Y\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Toggle background-color opacity\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 O\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Outline custom brush with foreground color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+O\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Toggle pixel grid\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 G\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Zoom under cursor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 M\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use zoom tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 Z\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use custom brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+B\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Halve size of custom brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 MINUS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Double size of custom brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 PLUS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 New device image for icons and cursors\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move to next pane\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 TAB, F6\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move to previous pane\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+TAB, SHIFT+F6\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Select previous foreground color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 [\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Select next foreground color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ]\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Select previous background color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \{\-\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Select next background color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \'7d\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Show or hide pixel grid\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 G\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Show or hide tile grid\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+G\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Use the dialog editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move to the next control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move to the previous control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move control right one DLU\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move control left one DLU\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move control up one DLU\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 UP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move control down DLU\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Expand the selected control horizontally\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Contract the selected control horizontally\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Expand the selected control vertically\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Contract the selected control vertically\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+UP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align selected controls along left edge\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align selected controls along right edge\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align selected controls along top edge\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+UP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align selected controls along bottom edge\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align selected controls horizontally on centerlines\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F9\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align selected controls vertically on centerlines\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+F9\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Center selected control vertically in dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+F9\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Center selected control horizontally in dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+SHIFT+F9\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Space selected controls evenly across\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Space selected controls evenly down\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align buttons at right edge of dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+B\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Align buttons at bottom of dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+SHIFT+B\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Make selected controls same width\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+MINUS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Make selected controls same height\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+BACKSLASH\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Make selected controls same height and width\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+EQUAL\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Size control to content\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F7\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Show or hide alignment grid\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+G\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Set tab order\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+D\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Using the menu editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 View menu as pop-up\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+U\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Insert empty menu at current location\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Delete menu item\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 DEL\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Using the string editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Find text\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+F3, CTRL+F\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Find next occurrence of text\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F3\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Add new string\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Delete current string\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 DEL\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Edit resources as binary data\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move selection right\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move selection left\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move selection up\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 UP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move selection down\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move between hexadecimal and ASCII listings\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 TAB\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Getting Help\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Open the Help contents screen\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F1\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft244 \cellx2025\cellx5505\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Get context-sensitive help\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+F1\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} dialog editor topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2W_87U}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio editors;dialog editor}
\f5\b Dialog Editor Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create and edit dialog boxes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\tx455 Creating a new dialog box; opening an existing dialog box for editing\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\tx455 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v Z4G.5J}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Add controls to a dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\tx455 Showing the control palette; alternative methods for adding controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\tx455 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v BH4SPK}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Place and size controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Selecting, moving, copying, or deleting controls; sizing individual controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v F_VC4S}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Arrange controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using Snap to Grid; aligning, spacing, and resizing controls;grouping controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v VDIPRB}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Change the tab order\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Setting and changing the dialog-box tab order\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 14GB.R0}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Define dialog box keyboard access\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Defining mnemonic keys for dialog-box controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 1SXJ0KQ}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Change the dominant control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using \fs17 CTRL\fs20 -click to change the dominant control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 4IHM_0.}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use custom controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using VBX controls or user-defined controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v 2AD3L1P}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Map controls to class members\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Mapping buttons to handler functions and other controls to class member\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v KBDPKG}\plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\fs20 Create a form view\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a dialog-box template for use with the \b CFormView\plain\f5\fs20  or \b CDialogBar\plain\f5\fs20  classes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v EXB0AT}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Test a dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the dialog editor's test mode to test a dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2FQCIWC}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \uldb \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Z4G.5J}
\pard\sb195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating a New Dialog-Box Template\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1RPIUS3}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Editing an Existing Dialog Box\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %Z4T_MK}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating a New Dialog-Box Template}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1RPIUS3}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} creating new dialog box template;dialog box;dialog editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v Z4G.5J}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Creating a New Dialog-Box Template 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new dialog-box template:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm50.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the New Dialog Box button \{bmc bm51.mrb\}. 
\par  Or 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm52.bmp\}\tab In the resource browser window, click New, or from the Resources menu, choose New \fs17 (CTRL+R)\fs20 . Then select Dialog from the list of choices.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The dialog box editor appears. Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to move to the property page and type a name for the new dialog box. You can use the Properties window at any time to change the dialog box's properties.
\par When the dialog box is created, AppStudio assigns it a unique symbol name and value. If you need to change the symbol value you can use the ID box on the General property page. Type the symbol name followed by an equals sign and a new value. For example, 
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 IDD_DIALOG1=1001
\par \pard\sa235\li245 \f5\fs20 Now you can place place \ul controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v UJL47Y} in the dialog.\uldb 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Editing a Dialog Box in a Dialog Editor Window}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Z4T_MK}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} dialog box;dialog editor;editing existing dialog box templates}
\ul \plain\f5\b\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v Z4G.5J}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Editing a Dialog Box in a Dialog Editor Window
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To edit an existing dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Move to the resource browser window.
\par 2.\tab In the Type box, select Dialog.
\par \tab A list of the dialog resources in the current file appears in the Resources box.
\par 3.\tab In the Resources box, select the name or identifier of the dialog box you want to edit.
\par 4.\tab Choose Open. 
\par \tab Or select the resource and press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \tab Or double-click the resource.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Or from the Resource menu, choose Open.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The dialog-box editor window appears.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} BH4SPK}
\pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Showing or Hiding the Control Palette\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6KH_X_}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Adding Controls to a Dialog Box\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %P_KPL1}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You add controls to a dialog box by selecting the control you want from the control palette. When displayed, the palette stays positioned above other open windows on your desktop.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Showing or Hiding the Control Palette}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6KH_X_}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} control palette;controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;showing/hiding control palette;VBX controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v BH4SPK}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Showing or Hiding the Control Palette
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To show or hide the control palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm53.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 F2\fs20  to display or hide the control palette.
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm54.bmp\}\tab From the Window menu, choose Show Control Palette or Hide Control Palette.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Adding Controls to a Dialog Box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} P_KPL1}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} adding controls;control palette;controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;VBX controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v BH4SPK}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Adding Controls to a Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To add a control to a dialog box using drag and drop:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Drag a control from the control palette to the dialog window. 
\par \tab As you drag the control into the dialog box, a dotted outline of the control indicates its position.
\par 2.\tab When the dotted outline of the control is in the position you want, release the left mouse button.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The control is given a standard size appropriate to that type of control.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf1 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To add controls to a dialog box using point and click:\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the control palette, click the button for the control you want.
\par \tab Or to add multiple controls of the same type, hold down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key and click the control you want.
\par 2.\tab Move the mouse pointer to the dialog box and click at the position(s) you want. 
\par \tab The control is given a standard size appropriate to that type of control.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Press \fs17 ESC \fs20 when you are finished placing controls if you created multiple controls by using the \fs17 CTRL\fs20 -click method.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To add controls to a dialog box by "drawing" with the pointing device:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the control palette, click the control you want.
\par 2.\tab Place the pointer where you want the upper-left corner of the control to be located.
\par 3.\tab Hold down the left mouse button.
\par 4.\tab Move the mouse pointer to the right and down; a dotted outline of the control appears.
\par 5.\tab When the control is the size you want, release the mouse button.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab Press \fs17 ESC \fs20 when you are finished placing controls if you created multiple controls by using the \fs17 CTRL\fs20 -click method.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 After you have added a control to the dialog box, you can change its caption or any other of its properties in the Properties window.
\par 
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} F_VC4S}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD}
\par \pard\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Moving Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6642U.}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Deleting and Copying Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1IBCZQP}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Sizing Individual Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J8QES7}\uldb 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Selecting Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J4CAHD}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;controls: selecting;dialog box controls;dialog editor;selecting controls}
\ul \plain\f5\b\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v F_VC4S}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Selecting Controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 When you are sizing or aligning multiple controls, App Studio uses the "dominant control" to determine how the other controls are sized or aligned. When multiple controls are selected, the dominant control has solid sizing handles; all the other selected controls have hollow sizing handles. You can set the dominant control by holding down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key while clicking with the mouse.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select a control:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm55.bmp\}\tab Point to the control you want and click. The selected object (control or dialog box) is deselected.
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm56.bmp\}\tab Use \fs17 TAB\fs20  to move forward or \fs17 SHIFT+TAB\fs20  to move backward through the controls in the dialog box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To select more than one control:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the control palette, make sure the pointer tool is selected.
\par 2.\tab Hold down the left mouse button and drag to draw a selection box around the controls you want to select. Controls partially outside the selection box are not selected.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab When you release the mouse button, all controls inside the selection box are selected.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   You can select multiple controls by clicking them individually while holding down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key. In addition, clicking a selected control with the \fs17 SHIFT \fs20 key held down deselects it.
\par Once you have selected one or more controls, you can remove or add individual controls without disturbing the selection as a whole.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To remove from or add to an existing selection:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm57.bmp\}\tab Hold down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key and click the control you want to remove from or add to the existing selection.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Moving Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6642U.}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Clipboard: using;controls;controls: copying;controls: moving;copying controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;moving controls;placing controls;snap to grid: effect on placing and sizing}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v F_VC4S}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Moving Controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 You can use the following procedures to move one or more controls from one location to another in a dialog box or from one dialog box to another. If \uldb Snap to Grid\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 1.FDLEO} is on, the control snaps to the alignment grid. For information on other ways to align multiple controls, see \uldb Arranging Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v ZRYRW7}.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To move a control from one location to another in a dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm58.bmp\}\tab Drag the control to its new location.
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm59.bmp\}\tab Select the control and use the arrow keys to move the control one \ul DLU\plain\f5\fs20 {\v D3VL_8} at a time. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To move a control from one dialog box to another:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm60.bmp\}\tab If both dialog boxes are visible, drag the control to its new location. (Hold down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key while dragging if you just want to copy the control.)
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm61.bmp\}\tab Use the File menu's Cut and Paste commands. The control is placed in the same position as in the original dialog box.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note  \plain\f5\fs20 In rare cases you may need to place a control outside of a dialog box. To do this, hold down the \fs17 ALT\fs20  key while dragging the control.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Deleting and Copying Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1IBCZQP}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Clipboard: using;controls;controls: copying;controls: deleting;copying controls;deleting controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v F_VC4S}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Deleting and Copying Controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To delete a control:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the control.
\par 2.\tab From the Edit Menu, choose Cut or Delete.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+X \fs20 (Cut); \fs17 DEL \fs20 (Delete)
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To copy a control:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm62.bmp\}\tab Drag the control while holding down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key.
\par -Or-
\par \{bmc bm63.bmp\}\tab Use the Edit menu's Copy and Paste commands.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+C \fs20 (Copy); \fs17 CTRL+V\fs20  (Paste)
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab When you paste a control into a new dialog, it is placed in the same position as it was in the old dialog
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} placing and sizing controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J8QES7}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;controls: sizing;dialog box controls;dialog editor;sizing controls;snap to grid: effect on placing and sizing}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v F_VC4S}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Sizing Individual Controls
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Use the sizing handles to resize a control. When the mouse cursor is positioned on a sizing handle, it changes shape to indicate the direction in which the control will be resized. Active sizing handles are solid; if a sizing handle is hollow, the control cannot be resized along that axis. For information on sizing multiple controls, see \uldb Resizing Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 9O3ZSJ}.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 When you change the size of a control, its final shape may be affected by whether you have \uldb Snap to Grid\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 1.FDLEO} turned on.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To resize a control:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the control or select it with the \fs17 TAB\fs20  key.
\par 2.\tab Use the sizing handles to change the size of the control:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm64.bmp\}\tab Sizing handles at the top and sides change the horizontal or vertical size.
\par \{bmc bm65.bmp\}\tab Sizing handles at the corners change both horizontal and vertical size.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 -Or-
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm66.bmp\}\tab Use the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key plus the arrow keys to resize the control one \ul DLU\plain\f5\fs20 {\v D3VL_8} at a time.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To resize a control to fit its caption:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the control.
\par 2.\tab From the Layout menu, choose Size to Content. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 F7\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To set the size of the combo box drop-down area:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 When you select a drop-down or drop-list combo box for sizing, only the right and left sizing handles are active. Use these handles to set the width of the combo box as it is initially displayed. You can also set the vertical size of the drop-down portion of the combo box.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the drop-down arrow at the right of the combo box.
\par \tab The outline of the control changes to show the size of the combo box with the drop-down \cf1 area \plain\f5\fs20 extended.
\par 2.\tab Use the bottom sizing handle to change the initial size of the drop-down area.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Click the drop-down arrow again to close the drop-down portion of the combo box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} changing tab order}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 14GB.R0}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;order: tabs;tab order: changing}
\b Changing Tab Order
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Tab order is the order in which the tab key moves the input focus from one control to the next within a dialog box. To make a control part of the tab order, select the Tabstop option (normally already selected) on the control's General property page.
\par Even controls that do not have the Tabstop property set need to be part of the tab order. Defining mnemonics for controls without a caption is an example of why this can be important. Static text that contains a mnemonic for a related control must immediately precede the related control in the tab order. 
\par \b\fs18 Note\fs20   \plain\f5\fs20 If your dialog box contains overlapping controls, changing the tab order may change the way the controls are displayed. Controls which come first in the tab order are always displayed on top of any overlapping controls that follow them in the tab order.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the tab order for all controls in a dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Layout menu, choose Set Tab Order .
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455\tx3715 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+D\fs20 
\par \tab A number at the upper left of each control shows the current tab order.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Set the tab order by clicking each control in the same order you want the \fs17 TAB\fs20  key to follow.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to exit Set Tab Order mode.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 To change the existing tab order, you usually need to change the selected control first, as explained in the following procedure. The selected control determines the number of the control you click next. For example, if you are in Set Tab Order mode and control number 1 is selected, the next control you click is set to number 2.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the existing tab order:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Layout menu, choose Set Tab Order.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+D\fs20 
\par 2.\tab Change the selected control. To do this, hold down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key and click the control \i prior to\plain\f5\fs20  the one where you want the changed order to begin.
\par \tab For example, if you want to change the order of controls 7 through 9, select control 6 first.
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \b\fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   To set a specific control to number 1 (first in the tab order), double-click the control.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Reset the tab order by clicking in the order you want the tab key to follow.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to exit Set Tab Order mode.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} defining dialog-box keyboard access}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1SXJ0KQ}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} dialog box;dialog editor;keyboard access: dialog box}
\b Defining Dialog-Box Keyboard Access
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Normally keyboard users move the input focus from one control to another in a dialog box with the \fs17 TAB\fs20  and arrow keys. However, you can define a mnemonic key that allows users to choose the control by pressing a single key.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To define a mnemonic key for a control with its own visible caption (pushbuttons, check boxes, and radio buttons):
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the control and move to the General property page.
\par 2.\tab In the Caption box, type an ampersand (&) in front of the letter you want as the mnemonic for that control.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab An underline appears in the displayed caption to indicate the mnemonic key.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To define a mnemonic for a control without a visible caption:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Make a caption for the control by using a static text control. In the static text caption, type an ampersand (&) in front of the letter you want as the mnemonic.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Make sure the static text control immediately precedes the control it labels in the tab order.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} changing the dominant control}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4IHM_0.}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} aligning controls;changing the dominant control;controls;controls: aligning;controls: resizing;dialog box controls;dialog editor;dominant control}
\b Changing the Dominant Control
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 When you are resizing or aligning multiple controls, App Studio uses the dominant control to determine how the other controls are sized or aligned. When multiple controls are selected, the dominant control has solid sizing handles; all the other selected controls have hollow sizing handles.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the dominant control when more than one control is selected:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm67.bmp\}\tab Hold down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key and click the control you want to influence the size or location of the others.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The sizing handles change from hollow to solid. All further resizing or alignment is based on this control. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} arranging controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} VDIPRB}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} aligning controls;arranging controls;controls;controls: aligning;controls: resizing;controls: spacing evenly;dialog box controls;dialog editor;grid settings;resizing controls;snap to grid;spacing controls evenly}
\uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using Snap to Grid\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1.FDLEO}
\par \pard\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Aligning Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %ZRYRW7}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Making Spacing Even\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resizing Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %9O3ZSJ}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Grouping Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %N9VR_Q}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 App Studio provides layout tools you can use to align and size controls automatically. For most tasks, you can use the dialog editor toolbar. All commands are also available on the Layout menu and most have keyboard equivalents. Many layout commands are available only when more than one control is selected (see \uldb Selecting Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v J4CAHD}).
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using Snap to Grid}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1.FDLEO}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} aligning controls;arranging controls;controls;controls: aligning;dialog box controls;dialog editor;grid settings;snap to grid}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v VDIPRB}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Using Snap to Grid
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 When you are placing or arranging controls in a dialog box, you can use the alignment grid for more precise positioning. When the grid is turned on, controls appear to "snap to" the dotted lines of the grid as if magnetized. You can turn this "snap to grid" feature on and off, and change the size of the grid cells.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To turn Snap to Grid on and off for the currently active dialog editor window:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm68.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click Snap to Grid \{bmc bm69.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+G\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To turn Snap to Grid on or off for all dialog editor windows:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the Layout menu, choose Grid Settings. The Grid Settings dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab Turn the Snap to Grid check box on or off.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab You can still control Snap to Grid in individual dialog editor windows using the Snap to Grid button on the dialog editor toolbar.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the size of the layout grid:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the Layout menu, choose Grid Settings. The Grid Settings dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab Enter the height and width in \ul DLUs\plain\f5\fs20 {\v D3VL_8} for the cells in the grid. The minimum height or width is 4 DLUs.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Aligning Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ZRYRW7}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} aligning controls;arranging controls;controls;controls: aligning;dialog box controls;dialog editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v VDIPRB}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Aligning Controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To align controls:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the controls you want to align.
\par 2.\tab Make sure the correct \ul dominant control\plain\f5\fs20 {\v M0KNL1} is selected. The final position of the group of controls depends on the position of the dominant control. 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455\tx4795 3.\tab Choose one of the following tools on the toolbar: \f7 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft384 \cellx1745\cellx2365\cellx4285\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \f5 Align Left\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm70.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their left side.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft384 \cellx1745\cellx2365\cellx4285\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Align Right\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm71.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their right side.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft384 \cellx1745\cellx2365\cellx4285\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Align Top\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm72.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their top edges.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+UP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft384 \cellx1745\cellx2365\cellx4285\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs20 Align Bottom\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \f7 \{bmc bm73.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their bottom edges.\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \f5\fs17 CTRL+DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To align controls on their center, vertically or horizontally:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the controls you want to center.
\par 2.\tab Make sure the correct \ul dominant control\plain\f5\fs20 {\v M0KNL1} is selected. The final position of the group of controls depends on the position of the dominant control.
\par 3.\tab From the Layout menu, choose Align Vert. Center or Align Horiz. Center.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 F9\fs20  (Align Vert. Center); \fs17 SHIFT+F9\fs20  (Align Horiz. Center)
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Making Spacing Even}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 81R8L_}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging controls;controls;controls: spacing evenly;dialog box controls;dialog editor;spacing controls evenly}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v VDIPRB}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Making Spacing Even
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To even the spacing between controls:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the controls you want to rearrange.
\par 2.\tab Choose one of the following tools on the toolbar: 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft494 \cellx1755\cellx2305\cellx4185\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 Space Evenly Across\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa95\tx8635 \f7 \{bmc bm74.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 Controls are spaced evenly between the leftmost and the rightmost control selected.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 \fs17 ALT+LEFT\line
ARROW or ALT+RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft494 \cellx1755\cellx2305\cellx4185\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215\tx8635 \fs20 Space Evenly Down\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa235\tx8635 \f7 \{bmc bm75.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215\tx8635 Controls are spaced evenly between the topmost and the bottommost control selected.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215\tx8635 \fs17 ALT+UP\line
ARROW or ALT+DOWN ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To center controls in the dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the control or controls you want to rearrange.
\par 2.\tab Choose one of the following tools on the toolbar: 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft494 \cellx2085\cellx2615\cellx4585\cellx5905\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Center Vertical\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm76.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Controls are centered vertically in the dialog.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+F9\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft494 \cellx2085\cellx2615\cellx4585\cellx5905\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Center Horizontal\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \f7 \{bmc bm77.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \f5 Controls are centered horizontally in the dialog.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+SHIFT+F9\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To arrange pushbuttons along the right or bottom of the dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select one or more pushbuttons.
\par 2.\tab From the Layout menu, choose Arrange Buttons, then choose Right or Bottom. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The selected buttons are positioned in a standard arrangement along the bottom or right of the dialog box. If controls other than pushbuttons are selected, their position is not affected.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Resizing Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 9O3ZSJ}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging controls;controls;controls: resizing;dialog box controls;dialog editor;resizing controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v VDIPRB}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Resizing Controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To make controls the same size, height, or width:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the controls you want to resize.
\par 2.\tab Choose one of the following tools on the toolbar: 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft454 \cellx2245\cellx3095\cellx4075\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Make Same Width\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa75\li455\fi-215 \f7 \{bmc bm78.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\li455\fi-215 \fs17 CTRL+ -\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft444 \cellx2245\cellx3095\cellx4075\pard\intbl\sa75\li455\fi-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Make Same Height\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa75\li455\fi-215 \f7 \{bmc bm79.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\li455\fi-215 \fs17 CTRL+\'5c\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft444 \cellx2245\cellx3095\cellx4075\pard\intbl\sa75\li455\fi-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Make Same Size\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa195\li455\fi-215 \f7 \{bmc bm80.mrb\}\f5 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa195\li455\fi-215 \fs17 CTRL+=\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To size a control based on its content:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the control.
\par 2.\tab From the Layout menu, choose Size to Content.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The control is sized to the height and width of its caption text.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Grouping Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} N9VR_Q}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging controls;controls;controls: grouping;dialog box controls;dialog editor;group;grouping controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v VDIPRB}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Grouping Controls
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Use the group box control to visually link a group of radio buttons or related check boxes. Then set the Group property for the first control and clear it for the remaining controls so the user can move among the grouped controls with the arrow keys.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a group of radio buttons or check boxes:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the group box control on the control palette and draw the group box to the approximate size you want. Type an appropriate caption, or leave the Caption box on the property page blank if you want no caption to appear.
\par 2.\tab Place the radio buttons or check boxes and adjust the size of  the group box as necessary.
\par 3.\tab Set the tab order for the dialog box. The controls in the group should follow each other sequentially in the tab order.
\par 4.\tab On the General property page for the first control in the group, set the Group property. For radio buttons, also set the Tabstop property for the first control in the group.
\par 5.\tab Make sure the rest of the controls in the group do not have the Group property set.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab Move to the control that, based on the tab order, immediately follows the last control in the group. Set the Group property for this control.
\par 
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2AD3L1P}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using VBX Controls with the Control Palette\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2}
\par \pard\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Setting VBX Control Properties\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %39G3_NJ}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Working with User-Defined Controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GW_HXO}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using VBX Controls with the Control Palette}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MOSMR2}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;controls: custom;controls: VBX;custom controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;VBX controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2AD3L1P}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Using VBX Controls with the Control Palette
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To add a VBX custom control to the App Studio control palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose Install Controls. The Install Controls dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Control Filename box, type the name of the custom control file, or use the Drives and Directories boxes to find the file you want. A single .VBX file can contain one or more VBX controls.
\par 3.\tab Choose OK to add the control and dismiss the dialog box. 
\par \tab \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \tab Use the Install command to add multiple VBX files, and then choose Close to dismiss the dialog box. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab An icon representing each control installed appears on the App Studio control palette. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To delete a VBX control from the App Studio control palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose Install Controls. The Install Controls dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Installed Files box, select the name of the control file you want to delete.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Choose Remove, then choose Close.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Setting VBX Control Properties}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 39G3_NJ}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;controls: custom;controls: setting VBX properties;controls: VBX;custom controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;properties;setting VBX properties;VBX controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2AD3L1P}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Setting VBX Control Properties
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 You can edit VBX control properties using the Properties window. The \uldb General property page\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 5MYWZDU} allows you to set such common control properties as captions or identifiers. The \uldb Styles property page\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 8G97T.} gives you access to all of the VBX control's properties that can be edited as you build the dialog box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To edit VBX control properties:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the VBX control you want to edit and move to the General or Styles property page.
\par 2.\tab On the General property page, you can modify properties.
\par 3.\tab On the Styles property page, select a property and use the edit box to change the property's value. Depending on the type of property, you may also be able to 
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm81.bmp\}\tab Choose from a list of property values.
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa235\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm82.bmp\}\tab Choose the Open Dialog button to the right of the edit box to bring up a dialog box for changing the property's value.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Moving or resizing a VBX control in the dialog editor changes its Top, Left, Right, or Bottom properties as appropriate. 
\par \pard\sa235\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm83.mrb\}{\v 124O.2S>more}\plain\f5\fs20    More information on VBX controls
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Working with User-Defined Controls}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} GW_HXO}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;controls: user-defined;dialog box controls;dialog editor;user-defined controls}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2AD3L1P}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Working with User-Defined Controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To edit user-defined control properties:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the control and move to the \uldb General property page\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 3WBX1X}.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Enter or modify the information as appropriate.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To place user-defined controls:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 You can use App Studio to place custom controls that are created in a format other than the VBX control format. A user-defined control displays as an empty rectangle when you place it in a dialog box. The \uldb user-defined control property page\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 3WBX1X} allows you to
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm84.bmp\}\tab Identify the name of the control's Windows class.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm85.bmp\}\tab Type in a 32-bit hexadecimal value that sets the control's style.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\f13\fs20   \f5 User-defined controls include controls created in the format described in the documentation for the \i Windows 3.x\plain\f5\fs20  \i Software Development Kit.\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\sa115\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm83.mrb\}{\v 1_07VVE>more}\plain\f5\fs20    More information on User-Defined Controls
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} creating a form view}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EXB0AT}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} creating a form view;dialog box template;dialog editor;form view}
\b Creating a Form View
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 You can use App Studio to create a dialog-box template that is used as a "form view," a \b CView\plain\f5\fs20 -compatible window that contains dialog-box controls. An example of an application that might need a form view is one in which the primary program function is data entry. In this case, the program's main view contains nothing but dialog-box controls for entering data.
\par To construct a form view, you create a dialog box as you normally would but set several style properties differently (see the following procedure). You then incorporate the form view into your program using the Microsoft Foundation Class Library \b CFormView\plain\f5\fs20  class. You can use the same procedure to create a template for use with the \b CDialogBar\plain\f5\fs20  class. For more information, see the \i Class Library Reference\plain\f5\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a dialog-box template for use with the \b CFormView\plain\f5\fs20  or \b CDialogBar\plain\f5\fs20  class:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Use the dialog editor in the usual way to create a dialog-box template with the controls arranged as you want them to appear in the form view.
\par 2.\tab Move to the Styles property page and set the following properties:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm86.bmp\}\tab In the Style box, select Child from the list of choices.
\par \{bmc bm87.bmp\}\tab In the Border box, select None from the list of choices.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm88.bmp\}\tab Clear the Visible property.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab On the General property page, clear the dialog-box template's caption.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Incorporate the template into your program using the \b CFormView\plain\f5\fs20  class.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} testing a dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2FQCIWC}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} dialog box;dialog editor;testing a dialog box}
\b Testing a Dialog Box\uldb 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 You can simulate the run-time behavior of a dialog box from within App Studio without compiling your program. This gives you immediate feedback on how the layout of controls appears and performs, and speeds up the user-interface design process.
\par When you are in test mode you can
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm89.bmp\}\tab Type in text, select from combo-box lists, turn options on and off, and choose commands.
\par \{bmc bm90.bmp\}\tab Test the tab order.
\par \{bmc bm91.bmp\}\tab Test the grouping of controls such as radio buttons or check boxes.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm92.bmp\}\tab Test the dialog's keyboard interface (the mnemonic keys for controls that have them defined).
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   Connections to dialog-box code made using ClassWizard are not simulated during dialog-box test mode. 
\par When you test a dialog box, it is usually displayed at a location relative to the main App Studio program window. If the dialog box's Absolute Align property is selected, the dialog box is displayed at a position relative to the upper-left corner of the screen.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To test a dialog box:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the Test button \{bmc bm93.mrb\}, or from the Resource menu, choose Test.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+T\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab To end the test session, take one of the following actions:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm94.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 ESC\fs20 .
\par \{bmc bm95.bmp\}\tab Close the dialog box using its system menu.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 ALT+F4\fs20 
\par \pard\sa235\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm96.bmp\}\tab Choose a pushbutton with a symbol name of IDOK or IDCANCEL.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Dialog Box Units of Measure}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} D3VL_8}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} dialog box;DLU;units of measure: dialog box}
\b Dialog Box Units of Measure
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The location, height, and width of the current control is displayed in the lower-right corner of the App Studio status bar. When more than one control is selected, the position indicators show the position of the dominant control (the control with solid sizing handles). When the dialog box is selected, the status bar displays the position of the dialog box and the height and width of the dialog box.
\par The location and size of a dialog box, as well as the location and size of controls within it, are measured in dialog box units (DLUs). A DLU is based on the size of the dialog box font, normally 8-point MS Sans Serif. A horizontal DLU is the average width of the dialog box font divided by four. A vertical DLU is the average height of the font divided by eight.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} standard control types}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} UJL47Y}
\pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls;dialog box controls;standard control types}
\b Standard Control Types
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The dialog editor lets you create dialog boxes that include the following standard control types: 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx3165\cellx5175\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 pushbutton\line
option button\line
check box\line
list box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 combo box\line
group box\line
static graphic\line
edit text\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 static text\line
scroll bar\line
user-defined control\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The dialog editor and the Microsoft Foundation classes also support VBX custom controls, which are custom controls created in a format compatible with both Visual Basic and Visual C++. You can add VBX controls to the App Studio control palette, then incorporate them into your dialog boxes in the same way as standard controls.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} information on VBX controls}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 124O.2S}
\pard\keepn\sb195\sa75\sl-215\li245 \uldb \b \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("more")}\plain\f5\b\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\sl-215\li245 More Information on VBX Controls
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 You can add VBX controls to the App Studio control palette with the File menu's Install Controls command. Then use VBX controls to create dialog boxes and control bars just as you would any of the standard controls.
\par When you install VBX controls, information about them is stored in the App Studio initialization file APSTUDIO.INI, and the controls are reloaded each time you start App Studio.
\par Working with VBX controls in App Studio requires a resource script (.RC) file that includes Microsoft Foundation Class Library support. For more information on programming with VBX controls, see Chapter 17 of the \i Class Library User's Guide\plain\f5\fs20 .
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   If you are creating an application that uses VBX controls, make sure that your application's install program places the VBX controls in the user's \'5cWINDOWS\'5cSYSTEM directory.  
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 Once a VBX control is installed on the control palette, you can use it like any other control. You can
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm97.bmp\}\tab Drag the control from the control palette to a dialog box.
\par \{bmc bm98.bmp\}\tab View and change all of the properties associated with the control.
\par \{bmc bm99.bmp\}\tab Edit the control's message map and data map with \uldb ClassWizard.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v topic_classwiz>main}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm100.bmp\}\tab Simulate the control's behavior in App Studio \uldb test mode.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 2FQCIWC>main}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} information on user-defined controls}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1_07VVE}
\pard\keepn\sb195\sa75\sl-215\li245 \uldb \b \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("more")}\plain\f5\b\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\sl-215\li245 More Information on User-Defined Controls
\par \pard\sa115\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 User-defined controls are custom controls that use a programming interface other than the VBX format. (The App Studio control palette button for user-defined controls is \{bmc bm101.mrb\}. App Studio user-defined controls let you use existing custom controls regardless of their format. With user-defined controls, App Studio allows you to 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm102.bmp\}\tab Set the location in the dialog box.
\par \{bmc bm103.bmp\}\tab Enter a caption.
\par \{bmc bm104.bmp\}\tab Identify the name of the control's Windows class (your application code must register the control by this name).
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm105.bmp\}\tab Type in a 32-bit hexadecimal value that sets the control's style.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 The differences between App Studio support for VBX controls and user-defined controls are shown below.
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2635\cellx5275\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b VBX Controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 User-Defined Controls\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2635\cellx5275\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\fs20 During the design phase, view the control as it will appear at run time.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 During the design phase, view the control as a gray square.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2635\cellx5275\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit style properties by name.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit style properties by entering a hexadecimal number.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2635\cellx5275\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 During test mode, test the control's appearance and behavior.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 During test mode, view the control as a gray square (run-time behavior not simulated).\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} dominant control: defined}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} M0KNL1}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging controls;controls;dialog box controls;dialog editor;dominant control}
Dominant Control
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The dominant control is used by App Studio to determine how the other controls are sized or aligned when you are sizing or aligning multiple controls. When multiple controls are selected, the dominant control has solid sizing handles; all the other selected controls have hollow sizing handles. You can set the dominant control by holding down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key while clicking that control. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} mapping controls to class members}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_dialed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_dialoged')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} KBDPKG}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} dialog editor}
\b Mapping Controls to Class Members
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 After you create controls in your dialog box, form view, or record view, you must map them to the members of a dialog, form view, or recordset class with ClassWizard.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Map pushbutton controls to handler functions in the class. Map edit boxes, radio buttons, and other user input controls to member variables of the class. For information on these techniques, see \uldb Using ClassWizard\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 1JGHI04}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Shortcut
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 To quickly map a single pushbutton or other control to a class member, hold down the \fs16 CTRL\fs20  key and double-click the control in the dialog editor. For a pushbutton, this opens ClassWizard's Add Member Function dialog box. For other controls, it opens the Add Member Variables dialog box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} graphics editor topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CBV8I7}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245\tx5035 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio editors;graphics editor}
\f4\b Graphics Editor Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2205\cellx4935\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn about the graphics editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the graphics editor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}{\v %12_31P8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Create and edit graphics resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a new bitmap, cursor, or icon resource; opening an existing one\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %91CRU0}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit graphical resource properties\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the graphics editor property page\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %LB2PUK}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Draw and paint\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Controlling the graphics palette; drawing, erasing, and filling; creating a custom brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %42S7BR8}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Resize and select\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Selecting part of a bitmap; flipping a selection; resizing; using the Clipboard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *5.Z..DC}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Move and copy\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Moving and copying; choosing an opaque or transparent background\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *12_ZAN1}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Manage the graphics editor workspace\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using image-editor panes; zooming; using pixel grids\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *B79L7M}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit icons and cursors\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Editing icon and cursor images; using device descriptions; setting a hot spot\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *_NF.ZF}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit toolbar graphics\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Editing graphics for use with the \b CToolBar\plain\fs20  class\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %1_54OGX}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Work with colors\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Selecting, picking up, or inverting colors; changing the number of colors\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *321RCSP}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2155\cellx4915\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Manage colors and palettes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating, saving, and loading color palettes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v *9XGNTV}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b\fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} using the graphics editor}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12_31P8}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor;graphics palette;image editor window;Image menu;status bar: graphics editor}
\fs20 Using the Graphics Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The App Studio graphics editor has a rich set of tools for drawing bitmaps, icons and cursors, as well as features to support the creation of toolbar bitmaps and the management of icon and cursor images.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 With the graphics editor, you can
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm106.bmp\}\tab Create and edit bitmaps in 2 or 16 colors, in sizes up to 999 x 999 pixels.
\par \{bmc bm107.bmp\}\tab Use a full complement of drawing tools.
\par \{bmc bm108.bmp\}\tab Easily copy images from one bitmap to another.
\par \{bmc bm109.bmp\}\tab Use custom brushes for special effects.
\par \{bmc bm110.bmp\}\tab Draw cursors and icons with transparent and inverse-color regions.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm111.bmp\}\tab Edit bitmaps for toolbar buttons.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Most editing procedures are the same for bitmaps, icons, and cursors. This chapter first shows the procedures common to all graphical resources. Later sections detail procedures and graphics-editor capabilities specific to icons, cursors, and toolbar-button images.
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   Many of the graphics editor's functions require a mouse or other pointing device.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 You edit bitmaps, icons, and cursors in App Studio's image-editor window, using the tools on the graphics palette. When an image-editor window is active, App Studio changes in these ways:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm112.bmp\}\tab The graphics palette appears.
\par \{bmc bm113.bmp\}\tab The properties window displays property pages specific to the graphical resource.
\par \{bmc bm114.bmp\}\tab When the mouse pointer is over an image, the status bar displays the pointer's coordinates relative to the upper-left corner of the image.
\par \{bmc bm115.bmp\}\tab The Delete item on the Edit menu changes to Clear.
\par \{bmc bm116.bmp\}\tab When the image-editor window contains a cursor or an icon, three new commands\{bmc bm117.bmp\}New Device Image, Open Device Image, and Delete Device Image\{bmc bm118.bmp\}are added to the Resource menu, and the image-editor window has a control bar with controls for selecting and creating images and for setting the cursor's hot spot.
\par \{bmc bm119.bmp\}\tab The Image menu is inserted between the Resource and Options menus.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm120.bmp\}\tab The Hide/Show Graphics Palette command on the Window menu is enabled.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b The Image-Editor Window
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The image-editor window shows two views of an image. A splitter separates the two panes. You can drag the splitter from side to side to change the relative sizes of the panes. The active pane displays a selection border.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b The Graphics Palette
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The graphics palette has four parts, which are shown below:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm121.bmp\}\tab The toolbox, which contains 15 tools for drawing, painting, erasing, and manipulating views.
\par \{bmc bm122.bmp\}\tab The color indicator, which shows the foreground and background colors and (for icons and cursors) selectors for "screen" and "inverse" color.
\par \{bmc bm123.bmp\}\tab The color palette, which you click to select the foreground and background colors.
\par \pard\sa115\li235 \f3 \{bmc bm124.mrb\}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4 \{bmc bm125.bmp\}\tab The option selector, which you click to select brush widths and other drawing options.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 To use the toolbox, color palette, and option selector, you click the desired tool, color, or option.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b The Status Bar
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The status bar, at the bottom of the App Studio frame window, displays two panes when an image-editor window is open. When the mouse cursor is over an image, the left pane shows the cursor's current position, in pixels, relative to the upper-left corner of the image. During a dragging operation, such as selecting, moving, and drawing a rectangle, the right pane shows the size, in pixels, of the affected area.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b The Image Menu
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The Image menu, which appears only when the graphics editor is active, has commands for editing images, managing color palettes, and setting image-editor window options.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating and Editing Graphical Resources}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 91CRU0}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;creating and editing bitmaps, icons, and cursors;cursors;graphical resources: opening;graphics editor;icons}
\b Creating and Editing Graphical Resources
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Opening New Graphical Resources\plain\fs20 {\v %Y2HX.Q}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Opening Existing Graphical Resources\plain\fs20 {\v %.AA1.F}\uldb 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can import existing bitmaps, icons, and cursors and add them to your project, and you can open files that are not part of a project for "stand-alone" editing. For information on importing resources, see \uldb Transferring Resources Between Files.\plain\fs20 {\v _TKOUR}
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   Most graphics-editor operations are the same for all kinds of graphical resources. Unless the text states otherwise, the procedures described in this section can be performed on bitmaps, cursors, or icons. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Opening New Graphical Resources}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Y2HX.Q}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;creating bitmaps, icons, and cursors;cursors;graphical resources: opening;graphics editor;icons}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 91CRU0}\plain\b\fs20   Opening New Graphical Resources
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 New graphical resources are always added to the current resource script, executable, dynamic-link library, or other file. If more than one file is open when you want to create the bitmap, click the resource browser window of the file to which you want to add the new bitmap.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new graphical resource:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm126.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the button for the resource you want to create:
\par \pard\sa35\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm127.bmp\}\tab The bitmap button \{bmc bm128.mrb\}.
\par \{bmc bm129.bmp\}\tab The cursor button \{bmc bm130.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa235\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm131.bmp\}\tab The icon button \{bmc bm132.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm133.bmp\}\tab In the resource browser window, click New, or from the Resource menu, choose New.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+R
\par \tab \fs20 Then select Bitmap, Icon, or Cursor from the list of choices and click OK or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 . 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The image-editor window appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new graphical resource for stand-alone editing:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose New.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+N\fs20 
\par 2.\tab From the New dialog box, choose Bitmap, Icon, or Cursor.
\par 3.\tab Choose OK.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The image editor window appears.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Opening Existing Graphical Resources}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .AA1.F}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;cursors;editing bitmaps, icons, and cursors;graphical resources: opening;graphics editor;icons}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 91CRU0}\plain\b\fs20   Opening Existing Graphical Resources
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To open an existing graphical resource for stand-alone editing:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose Open.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+O
\par \tab \fs20 The Open dialog box appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Use the Open dialog box to navigate directories and choose a filename.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To edit an existing graphical resource:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Move to the resource browser window.
\par 2.\tab In the Type box, select Bitmap, Icon, or Cursor.
\par \tab A list of the resources in the current file appears in the Resources box.
\par 3.\tab In the Resources box, select the bitmap resource you want to edit.
\par 4.\tab Choose Open. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The image editor window appears.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\fs20   The Properties window displays a thumbnail view of each graphical resource as you select its entry in the Resources box. To browse through the bitmaps in the file you are working on, select the first bitmap and then press the \fs17 DOWN\fs20  arrow key until the desired bitmap appears.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} editing graphical resource properties}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LB2PUK}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing graphical resource properties;graphical resource properties;graphics editor;properties}
\b Editing Graphical Resource Properties
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You use the Properties window to change most resource properties. Exceptions are the Width, Height, and Colors properties of icons and cursors, which you change by editing the App Studio initialization file, APSTUDIO.INI (see \uldb Editing Device Descriptions\plain\fs20 {\v 1RJPHLP}), and the cursor's hot spot (see \uldb Setting a Cursor's Hot Spot\plain\fs20 {\v 1M0W9TX}).
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change a bitmap's properties:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the bitmap whose properties you want to change.
\par 2.\tab Activate the \uldb General property page\plain\fs20 {\v 4Z2M0Z} by pressing \fs17 ENTER\fs20  or clicking the Properties window.
\par 3.\tab Change any or all of these properties:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm134.bmp\}\tab In the ID box, modify the resource's identifier. For a bitmap, App Studio by default assigns the next available identifier in a series: IDB_BITMAP1, IDB_BITMAP2, and so forth. Similar names are used for icons and cursors.
\par \{bmc bm135.bmp\}\tab In the Width and Height boxes, modify the bitmap's width and height (in pixels). The default value for each is 48.
\par \tab If you change the dimensions of a bitmap using the General property page, the image is cropped or "blank" space is added to the right of or below the existing image.
\par \{bmc bm136.bmp\}\tab In the Colors list box, select Monochrome or 16. If you have already drawn the bitmap with a 16-color palette, selecting Monochrome causes App Studio to substitute black and white for the colors in the bitmap. Contrast is not always maintained: for example, adjacent areas of red and green are both converted to black.
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm137.bmp\}\tab In the Filename box, modify the name of the file in which the bitmap is to be stored. By default, App Studio assigns a base filename created by removing the first four characters ("IDB_") from the default identifier and adding the extension .BMP.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm138.bmp\}\tab Check the Save Compressed check box to cause App Studio to save the bitmap in a compressed format.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5.Z..DC}
\pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting in a Bitmap\plain\fs20 {\v %4RRZ_S}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Flipping the Selection\plain\fs20 {\v %45UW.OO}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resizing a Bitmap\plain\fs20 {\v %3RZ3TD}\uldb 
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using the Clipboard\plain\fs20 {\v %0WFDCV}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Selecting in a Bitmap}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4RRZ_S}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;graphics editor;selecting in a bitmap}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 5.Z..DC}\plain\b\fs20   Selecting in a Bitmap
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The selection tool defines an area of the bitmap that you can cut, copy, clear, resize, invert, or move. You can also create a custom brush from the selection. See \uldb Creating a Custom Brush.\plain\fs20 {\v 1MH494.}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select an area of the bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the toolbox, click the selection tool \{bmc bm139.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 S\fs20 
\par 2.\tab Move the cursor to one corner of the bitmap area that you want to select. Cross hairs appear when the cursor is over the bitmap.
\par 3.\tab Drag the cursor to the opposite corner of the area you want to select. A rectangle shows which pixels will be selected. All pixels within the rectangle, including those "under the rectangle," are included in the selection.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Release the button. The "selection border," a rectangular frame, encloses the selected area. Now any operation you perform will affect only the pixels within the rectangle.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select the entire bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm140.bmp\}\tab Click the bitmap outside the current selection.
\par \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \{bmc bm141.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 ESC\fs20 .
\par \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \{bmc bm142.bmp\}\tab Choose another tool in the toolbox.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Flipping the Selection}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 45UW.OO}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;flipping selections in a bitmap;graphics editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 5.Z..DC}\plain\b\fs20   Flipping the Selection
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To flip the selection along the vertical axis:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm143.bmp\}\tab From the Image menu, choose Flip Horizontal.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 X\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To flip the selection along the horizontal axis:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm144.bmp\}\tab From the Image menu, choose Flip Vertical.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 Y\fs20 .
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Resizing a Bitmap}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3RZ3TD}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;graphics editor;resizing bitmaps}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 5.Z..DC}\plain\b\fs20   Resizing a Bitmap
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 App Studio's behavior in resizing a bitmap depends on whether the selection includes the entire bitmap or just part of it:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm145.bmp\}\tab When the selection includes only a part of the bitmap, App Studio shrinks the selection by deleting rows or columns of pixels and filling the vacated regions with the current background color, or it stretches the selection by duplicating rows or columns of pixels.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm146.bmp\}\tab When the selection includes the entire bitmap, App Studio either shrinks and stretches the bitmap, or crops and extends it.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 There are two ways to resize the bitmap: the resizing handles and the Properties window. You drag the sizing handles to change the size of all or part of a bitmap. Sizing handles that you can drag are solid. You cannot drag handles that are hollow. You can use the Properties window to resize only the entire bitmap, not a selected part.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To crop or extend an entire bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the entire bitmap.
\par \tab If a part of the bitmap is currently selected and you want to select the entire bitmap, click anywhere on the bitmap outside the current selection border, press \fs17 ESC\fs20 , or choose another drawing tool.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Drag a sizing handle until the bitmap is the desired size.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Normally, App Studio crops or enlarges a bitmap when you resize it by moving a sizing handle. If you hold down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key as you move a sizing handle, App Studio shrinks or stretches the bitmap.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To shrink or stretch an entire bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the entire bitmap.
\par \tab If a part of the bitmap is currently selected and you want to select the entire bitmap, click anywhere on the bitmap outside the current selection border, press \fs17 ESC\fs20 , or choose another drawing tool.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Hold down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key and drag a sizing handle until the bitmap is the desired size.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To shrink or stretch part of a bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the part of the bitmap you want to resize (see \uldb Selecting in a Bitmap\plain\fs20 {\v 4RRZ_S}).
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Drag one of the sizing handles until the selection is the desired size.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To resize a bitmap using the Height and Width properties:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the Properties window to activate it.
\par 2.\tab Type the desired dimensions in the Width and Height boxes.
\par \tab If you are increasing the size of the bitmap, App Studio extends the bitmap to the right and downward, filling the new region with the current background color.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab If you are decreasing the size of the bitmap, App Studio crops the bitmap on the right or bottom edge, or both.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can use the Width and Height properties only to resize the entire bitmap, not to resize a partial selection.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using the Clipboard}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0WFDCV}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;clearing selection in bitmaps;Clipboard: using;copying selection in bitmaps;cutting selection in bitmaps;graphics editor;pasting selection into bitmaps;selecting in a bitmap}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 5.Z..DC}\plain\b\fs20   Using the Clipboard
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can perform standard editing operations\{bmc bm147.bmp\}cutting, copying, clearing, and moving\{bmc bm148.bmp\}with the selection, whether the selection is the entire bitmap or just a part of it. Because the graphics editor uses the Windows Clipboard, you can transfer images between App Studio and other applications for Windows, such as Paintbrush and Microsoft Word for Windows.
\par In addition, you can resize the selection, whether it includes the entire bitmap or just a part. See \uldb Resizing a Bitmap.\plain\fs20 {\v 3RZ3TD}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To cut the current selection and copy it to the Clipboard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm149.bmp\}\tab From the Edit menu, choose Cut. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The original area of the selection is filled with the current background color, and the selection is now in the Clipboard.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To copy the current selection to the Clipboard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Edit menu, choose Copy. 
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+C
\par \fs20 \tab The selection is now in the Clipboard.
\par 2.\tab From the Edit menu, choose Paste.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+V\fs20 .
\par \tab The Clipboard contents, surrounded by the selection border, appear in the upper-left corner of the pane.
\par 3.\tab Position the cursor within the selection border and drag the Clipboard contents to the desired location on the bitmap.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab To copy the Clipboard contents into the bitmap at the desired location, click outside of the selection border or choose a new tool.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To clear the current selection without copying it to the Clipboard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm150.bmp\}\tab From the Edit menu, choose Clear.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 DEL\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The original area of the selection is filled with the current background color.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To paste the Clipboard contents into the bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Edit menu, choose Paste.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+V\fs20 .
\par \tab The Clipboard contents, surrounded by the selection border, appear in the upper-left corner of the pane.
\par 2.\tab Position the cursor within the selection border and drag the Clipboard contents to the desired location on the bitmap.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab To copy the Clipboard contents into the bitmap at the desired location, click outside of the selection border or choose a new tool.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 42S7BR8}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Showing and Hiding the Graphics Palette\plain\fs20 {\v %TE.HSO}
\par \pard\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Freehand Drawing and Erasing\plain\fs20 {\v %.5WEQV}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing Lines and Closed Figures\plain\fs20 {\v %KZ4PCY}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Filling Bounded Areas\plain\fs20 {\v %PF00M0}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating a Custom Brush\plain\fs20 {\v %1MH494.}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The graphics editor's freehand drawing and erasing tools all work in the same way: you select the tool and, if necessary, select foreground and background colors as well as size and shape options. You then move the cursor to the bitmap and click or drag to draw and erase.
\par Several tools have options, which appear in the option selector.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Showing and Hiding the Graphics Palette}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} TE.HSO}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 42S7BR8}\plain\b\fs20   Showing and Hiding the Graphics Palette
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Since many of the drawing tools are available from the keyboard, sometimes it is useful to be able to hide the graphics palette.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To show or hide the graphics palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm151.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 F2\fs20 .
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Freehand Drawing and Erasing}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5WEQV}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} drawing;erasing;freehand drawing and erasing;graphics editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 42S7BR8}\plain\b\fs20   Freehand Drawing and Erasing
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select and use a drawing tool:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the tool's button on the toolbox.
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1355\cellx1995\cellx4725\cellx5805\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b\ul Tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Icon\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Function\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Shortcut\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1355\cellx1995\cellx4725\cellx5805\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Eraser \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm152.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Paints over the image with the current background color when you press the left mouse button and fills areas of the current foreground color with the current background color when you press the right mouse button.\fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 SHIFT+P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1355\cellx1995\cellx4725\cellx5805\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Pencil\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm153.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws in a constant width of one pixel.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1355\cellx1995\cellx4725\cellx5805\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm154.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Colors area, whose size and shape are determined by the option selector.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 D\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1355\cellx1995\cellx4725\cellx5805\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs20 Airbrush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm155.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Randomly distributes color pixels around the center of the brush.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs17 A\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab If necessary, select colors and a brush:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm156.bmp\}\tab In the color palette, click the left mouse button to select a foreground color, or with the right button to select a background color.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm157.bmp\}\tab In the option selector, click a shape representing the brush you want to use. A rectangle appears around the option you have selected.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Move the cursor to the place on the bitmap where you want to start drawing or painting. The brush or cursor appears on the bitmap.
\par 4.\tab Press the left mouse button (for the foreground color) or the right mouse button (for the background color), and hold it down as you draw.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 5.\tab Release the mouse button.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To resize the brush tool or eraser tool to a single pixel:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm158.bmp\}\tab Press the \fs17 PERIOD\fs20  key.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the size of the brush, airbrush, or eraser:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm159.bmp\}\tab Press the \fs17 PLUS SIGN\fs20  key to increase the brush size, or the \fs17 MINUS SIGN\fs20  key to decrease it.
\par \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \{bmc bm160.bmp\}\tab Press the \fs17 PERIOD\fs20  key to choose the smallest size.
\par \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm161.bmp\}\tab Choose a brush in the option selector.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Drawing Lines and Closed Figures}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} KZ4PCY}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} closed figures;drawing and painting;graphics editor;lines}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 42S7BR8}\plain\b\fs20   Drawing Lines and Closed Figures
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 App Studio's tools for drawing lines and closed figures all work in the same way: you put the cursor at one point and drag to another. For lines, these points are the endpoints. For closed figures, these points are opposite corners of a rectangle bounding the figure.
\par Lines are drawn in a width determined by the current brush selection, and framed figures are drawn in a width determined by the current width selection. Lines and all figures, both framed and filled, are drawn in the current foreground color if you press the left mouse button or in the current background color if you press the right mouse button. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To draw a line:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the toolbox, select the line tool \{bmc bm162.mrb\}.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 L\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab If necessary, select colors: in the color palette, click with the left mouse button to select a foreground color or with the right button to select a background color.
\par 3.\tab If necessary, select a brush: in the option selector, click a shape representing the brush you want to use. Your selection is highlighted.
\par 4.\tab Place the cursor at the line's starting point.
\par 5.\tab Drag the cursor to the line's endpoint.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab Release the mouse button.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To draw a closed figure:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the toolbox, select a closed-figure drawing tool:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1055\cellx2245\cellx4825\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm163.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Framed rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle framed with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 R\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1055\cellx2245\cellx4825\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm164.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Filled rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle filled with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 SHIFT+R\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1055\cellx2245\cellx4825\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95 \fs20 \{bmc bm165.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Framed round rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle with rounded corners framed with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 N\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1055\cellx2245\cellx4825\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm166.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Filled round rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle with rounded corners and filled with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 SHIFT+N\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1055\cellx2245\cellx4825\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm167.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Framed ellipse \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws an ellipse framed with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 E\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft374 \cellx1055\cellx2245\cellx4825\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa235 \{bmc bm168.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 Filled ellipse tool\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Draws an ellipse filled with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \fs17 SHIFT+E\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab If necessary, select colors: in the color palette, click the left mouse button to select a foreground color or with the right button to select a background color.
\par 3.\tab If necessary, select a line width: in the option selector, click a shape representing the brush you want to use. A rectangle appears around the option you have selected.
\par 4.\tab Move the cursor to one corner of the rectangular area in which you want to draw the figure.
\par 5.\tab Drag to the diagonally opposite corner.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6. Release the mouse button.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Filling Bounded Areas}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} PF00M0}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bounded areas: filling;drawing and painting;filling bounded areas;graphics editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 42S7BR8}\plain\b\fs20   Filling Bounded Areas
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The graphics editor provides the fill (or "paint bucket") tool for filling any enclosed bitmap area with the current drawing color or the current background color.
\par \pard\sa195\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To use the fill tool :
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the toolbox, choose the fill tool \{bmc bm169.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 Shortcut: \fs17 F\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab If necessary, choose drawing colors: in the color palette, click the left button to select a foreground color or the right button to select a background color.
\par 3.\tab Move the fill tool to the area you want to fill.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Click the left or right mouse button to fill with the foreground color or the background color, respectively.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating a Custom Brush}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MH494.}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} custom brushes;graphics editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 42S7BR8}\plain\b\fs20   Creating a Custom Brush
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 A custom brush is a rectangular portion of a bitmap that you "pick up" and use like one of the graphics editor's ready-made brushes. All operations you can perform on a selection, you can perform on a custom brush as well.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a custom brush:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the part of the bitmap that you want to use for a brush. See \uldb Selecting in a Bitmap.\plain\fs20 {\v 4RRZ_S}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Press \fs17 CTRL+B\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 Pixels in a custom brush that match the current background color are normally "transparent": they do not paint over the existing image. You can change this behavior so that background-color pixels paint over the existing image. See \uldb Choosing Opaque and Transparent Backgrounds.\plain\fs20 {\v 6XW8BM}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To draw custom brush shapes in the background color:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select an opaque or transparent background.
\par 2.\tab Set the background color to the color in which you want to draw.
\par 3.\tab Position the custom brush where you want to draw.
\par 4.\tab Press the right mouse button.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Any opaque regions of the custom brush are drawn in the background color.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To double or halve the custom brush size:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm170.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 PLUS\fs20  to double the brush size, or \fs17 MINUS\fs20  to halve it.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To cancel the custom brush:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm171.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 ESC\fs20  or choose another drawing tool.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12_ZAN1}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Moving and Copying\plain\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Choosing Opaque and Transparent Backgrounds\plain\fs20 {\v %6XW8BM}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Moving and Copying (Graphics Editor)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MR42KO}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor;moving and copying}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 12_ZAN1}\plain\b\fs20   Moving and Copying
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To move the selection:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Position the cursor inside the selection border or anywhere on it except the sizing handles. For more information, see \uldb Selecting in a Bitmap\plain\fs20 {\v 4RRZ_S}
\par 2.\tab Drag the selection to its new location.
\par \tab The original area of the selection is filled with the current background color.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab To anchor the selection into the bitmap at its new location, click outside the selection border or choose a new tool.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To copy the selection:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Position the cursor inside the selection border or anywhere on it except the sizing handles.
\par 2.\tab Hold down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key as you drag the selection to a new location.
\par \tab The area of the original selection is unchanged.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab To copy the selection into the bitmap at its current location, click outside the selection cursor or choose a new tool.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To draw with the selection:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Position the cursor inside the selection border or anywhere on it except the sizing handles.
\par 2.\tab Hold down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key as you drag the selection.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Copies of the selection are left along the dragging path. The more slowly you drag, the more copies are made.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Choosing Opaque and Transparent Backgrounds}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6XW8BM}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} backgrounds: opaque and transparent;graphics editor;opaque backgrounds;transparent backgrounds}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 12_ZAN1}\plain\b\fs20   Choosing Opaque and Transparent Backgrounds
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you move or copy a selection, any pixels in the selection that match the current background color are by default "transparent": they do not obscure pixels in the target location. (A custom brush behaves the same way. See \uldb Creating a Custom Brush.\plain\fs20 {\v 1MH494.})
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To toggle the background-color transparency:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm172.bmp\}\tab In the option selector, click the appropriate button:
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 O\fs20 
\par \pard\sa35\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm173.bmp\}\f9 \tab \f4 \{bmc bm174.mrb\}  Opaque background: existing image is obscured by all parts of the selection.
\par \pard\sa235\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm175.bmp\}\f9 \tab \f4 \{bmc bm176.mrb\}  Transparent background: existing image shows through parts of the selection that match the current background color.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can change the background color while a selection is already in effect to change which parts of the image are transparent.
\par 
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} B79L7M}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using Image-Editor Window Panes\plain\fs20 {\v %0BGS04}
\par \pard\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Zooming In and Out\plain\fs20 {\v %7RY7_Q}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Changing the Magnification of Windows\plain\fs20 {\v %0A23N}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Displaying and Hiding Pixel Grids\plain\fs20 {\v %2_5GZ.W}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using Image Editor Window Panes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0BGS04}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl355\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor;image editor;image editor window;window panes: image editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B79L7M}\plain\b\fs20   Using Image Editor Window Panes
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Normally the image-editor window displays a bitmap in two panes separated by a splitter. One view is actual size, and the other is enlarged (the default enlargement factor is 6). The views in the two panes are updated automatically: changes you make in one pane are immediately shown in the other. The two panes make it easy for you to work on an enlarged "picture" of your bitmap in which you can distinguish individual pixels and at the same time observe the effect of your work on the actual-size view of the image.
\par If the bitmap is 200 x 200 pixels or larger, however, only one pane is displayed initially. Move the splitter to display both panes.
\par You can use the two panes in other ways. For example, you might enlarge the smaller pane and use the two panes to show different regions of a large bitmap.
\par You move the splitter to change the relative sizes of the panes. The splitter can move all the way to either side if you want to work on only one pane.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select an image-editor window pane:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm177.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 TAB\fs20  or \fs17 F6\fs20 , or click anywhere on the pane. The selection border then shows that the pane is active.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To size the image-editor window panes:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Position the cursor on the splitter.
\par \tab The cursor turns into a two-headed arrow.
\par 2.\tab Drag the splitter to the right or to the left.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Zooming In and Out}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7RY7_Q}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor;image editor;zooming}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B79L7M}\plain\b\fs20   Zooming In and Out
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 By default, the graphics editor displays the view in the left pane at actual size and the view in the right pane at 6 times actual size. There are several methods to change the magnification factor\{bmc bm178.bmp\}the ratio between actual and displayed size\{bmc bm179.bmp\}of the image you are editing and to toggle between an actual-size view and an enlarged view:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm180.bmp\}\tab The Zoom tool lets you select a magnification factor by clicking and lets you choose in advance the portion of the image that appears in the "zoomed" view.
\par \{bmc bm181.bmp\}\tab Zoom In/Out on the Image menu toggles between the enlarged view and the actual-size view.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm182.bmp\}\tab Zoom Under Cursor, available from the keyboard only, centers the part of the image that is under the mouse pointer in the image-editor pane.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To zoom in or out on an image-window pane:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the toolbox, click the Zoom tool \{bmc bm183.mrb\}.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 Z\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Position the mouse pointer over the pane you want to zoom in or out.
\par \tab If you are zooming in on an actual-size view and the magnified view will not fit in the pane, a tracking rectangle shows the part of the bitmap that will appear in the magnified view. Position the tracking rectangle over the area you want to view.
\par 3.\tab Click the pane you want to zoom in or out. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab If you have used the Zoom Decrease or Zoom Increase command (see \uldb Changing the Magnification Factor\plain\fs20 {\v 0A23N}) to change the zoom factor for the active pane, the current factor is used. Otherwise the default factor of 6 is used.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To zoom in on the part of the image under the cursor:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Position the mouse cursor on the point that you want to have centered in the zoomed view.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Press \fs17 M\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To toggle the magnification factor:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm184.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 M\fs20 .
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changing the Magnification Factor}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0A23N}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor;image editor;image editor window;magnification factor;window panes: image editor;zooming}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B79L7M}\plain\b\fs20   Changing the Magnification Factor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The magnification factor is the ratio between actual size of the bitmap and the displayed size. The default is 6, and the range is from 1 to 10.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the magnification factor:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the image-editor pane whose magnification factor you want to change.
\par 2.\tab On the toolbox, choose the Zoom tool \{bmc bm183.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 Z\fs20 .
\par \tab The cursor changes to the Zoom tool, and magnification-factor options appear in the option selector. If the current magnification factor matches an option, that option is highlighted.
\par 3.\tab Click the desired magnification factor.
\par \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par 1.\tab Select the image-editor pane whose magnification factor you want to change.
\par 2.\tab Press > to increase the magnification factor or < to decrease the magnification factor.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\fi235\tx455 \tab Shortcut:\tab increase \fs17 SHIFT+PERIOD\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab \tab \tab decrease \fs17 SHIFT+COMMA\fs20 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Displaying and Hiding Pixed Grids}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2_5GZ.W}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl355\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics editor;image editor;image editor window;pixel grids;window panes: image editor}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B79L7M}\plain\b\fs20   Displaying and Hiding Pixel Grids
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 For all image-editor window panes with a magnification factor of 4 or greater, you can display a grid that delimits the individual pixels in the image. See \uldb Changing the Magnification Factor.\plain\fs20 {\v 0A23N}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To display or hide the pixel grid:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Image menu, choose Grid Settings.
\par 2.\tab In the Grid Settings dialog box, check the Pixel Grid box to display the grid or clear the box to hide the grid.
\par 3.\tab Click OK.
\par -Or-
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm185.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 G\fs20  to toggle the grid display.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can also display a tile grid to simplify editing of toolbar graphics. See \uldb Editing Toolbar Graphics.\plain\fs20 {\v 1_54OGX}
\par 
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _NF.ZF}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating, Selecting, and Deleting  Images\plain\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO}
\par \pard\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Editing Device Descriptions\plain\fs20 {\v %1RJPHLP}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing with Screen and Inverse Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Setting a Cursor's Hot Spot\plain\fs20 {\v %1M0W9TX}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Icons and cursors are like bitmaps, and you edit them in the same ways. But icons and cursors have attributes that distinguish them from bitmaps. Each icon or cursor resource contains multiple images that differ according to the target display device. In addition, cursors have a "hot spot"\{bmc bm186.bmp\}the location Windows uses to track the cursor's position.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating, Selecting, and Deleting Images}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 79KI_AO}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} cursors;graphics editor;icons;images: creating, selecting, and deleting}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v _NF.ZF}\plain\b\fs20   Creating, Selecting, and Deleting Images
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you create a new icon or cursor, the graphics editor first creates an image for the current display device. The image is initially filled with the "screen" (transparent) color. If the image is a cursor, the hot spot is initially the upper-left corner (coordinates 0,0).
\par By default, the graphics editor creates images for the following devices:
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1645\cellx2545\cellx3385\cellx4195\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b\ul Device       \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Colors   \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Width   \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Height  \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1645\cellx2545\cellx3385\cellx4195\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 EGA/VGA\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 16\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 32\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 32\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1645\cellx2545\cellx3385\cellx4195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Monochrome\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 2\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 32\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 32\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1645\cellx2545\cellx3385\cellx4195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 CGA\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 2\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 32\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 16\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 You can create images for other devices if you first create descriptions for those devices in App Studio's configuration file, APSTUDIO.INI. See \uldb Editing Device Descriptions.\plain\fs20 {\v 1RJPHLP}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new image:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the control bar of the image editor window, click the Device Image button \{bmc bm187.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 INS\fs20 
\par \tab The New Cursor Image or New Icon Image dialog box appears. This dialog box lists all devices for which there is not an image in the current resource.
\par 2.\tab Select the device from the dialog box.
\par 3.\tab Click OK.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Edit the new image. In many cases you can copy an image for another device and paste it into the new image.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 When you open an existing icon or cursor, the image most closely matching the current display device is opened by default.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select a device image:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm188.bmp\}\tab On the control bar of the image-editor window, select a device image from the Device list box.
\par \tab Shortcut: \tab \fs17 PAGE UP\fs20  for previous image
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \fs17 \tab \tab \tab PAGE DOWN\fs20  for next image
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To delete a device image:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Display the device image you want to delete.
\par 2.\tab From the Resource menu, choose Delete Device Image.
\par \tab If this is the last image for the icon or cursor, App Studio displays a message box informing you that the resource will be deleted. Choose OK to delete the resource or Cancel to not delete the image. You cannot delete the last remaining image of a resource opened for stand-alone editing.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab If the image is the last one in the resource, choose OK to delete the resource from the resource file, or Cancel to cancel the operation.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Editing Device Descriptions}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1RJPHLP}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} cursors;device descriptions;editing device descriptions;graphics editor;icons}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v _NF.ZF}\plain\b\fs20   Editing Device Descriptions
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 App Studio's initialization file, \uldb APSTUDIO.INI,\plain\fs20 {\v 31Z1J49} contains information about the display devices for which App Studio can create icons and cursors. Display devices are described in the sections of the file labeled \f8\fs16 [IconDevices]\f4\fs20  and \f8\fs16 [CursorDevices]\f4\fs20 . Each device description has the form:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 DeviceName = ColorCount, Width, Height
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 The ColorCount entry must be 2 or 16, and the Width and Height must each be less than or equal to 999. 
\par If APSTUDIO.INI does not contain an \f8\fs16 [IconDevices]\f4\fs20  section, the following device descriptions are used by default:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 EGA/VGA=16, 32, 32\line
Monochrome=2, 32, 32\line
CGA=2, 32, 16
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 If APSTUDIO.INI does not contain a \f8\fs16 [CursorDevices]\f4\fs20  section, the following device description is used by default:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 Monochrome=2, 32, 32
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \f4\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To add device descriptions to APSTUDIO.INI:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open APSTUDIO.INI, using Notepad or another text editor.
\par 2.\tab Create a section label of the form \f8\fs16 [IconDevices]\f4\fs20  or \f8\fs16 [CursorDevices]\f4\fs20  if the appropriate section label does not already exist.
\par 3.\tab Under the section label, enter device descriptions in the form:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f8\fs18 DeviceName = ColorCount, Width, Height
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 4.\tab Close APSTUDIO.INI.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 5.\tab Restart App Studio to make the new device descriptions available.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Drawing with Screen and Inverse Colors}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 14K0ODN}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} cursors;drawing with screen and inverse colors;graphics editor;icons;inverse colors: drawing;screen colors: drawing}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v _NF.ZF}\plain\b\fs20   Drawing with Screen and Inverse Colors
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Icon and cursor images are rectangular, but many do not appear so because parts of the image are "transparent": the underlying image on the screen shows through the icon or cursor. And when you drag an icon, parts of the image may appear in an inverted color. You create these effects by choosing screen- and inverse-color options from the color indicator on the graphics palette.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create transparent or inverse regions in an icon or cursor:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the graphics palette, click a selector.
\par \pard\sa35\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm189.bmp\}\tab The screen-color selector \{bmc bm190.mrb\}
\par \pard\sa55\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm191.bmp\}\tab The inverse-color selector \{bmc bm192.mrb\}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Apply the screen or inverse color, using the methods described in \uldb Drawing and Painting.\plain\fs20 {\v 42S7BR8}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The screen and inverse "colors" you apply to icons and cursors are really attributes. The colors indicate parts of the image possessing those attributes. You can change the colors that represent the screen- and inverse-color attributes for your convenience in editing. These changes do not affect the appearance of the icon or cursor in your application.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the colors representing screen color and inverse color:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the graphics palette, double-click the screen-color or inverse-color indicator. 
\par \tab The Color dialog box appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose a new color from the Color dialog box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Setting a Cursor's Hot Spot}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1M0W9TX}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} cursor hot spot;cursors;graphics editor;icons}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v _NF.ZF}\plain\b\fs20   Setting a Cursor's Hot Spot
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The hotspot is the point to which Windows refers in tracking the cursor's position. By default, the cursor's hot spot is the upper-left corner (coordinates 0,0). The General property page and the image-window control bar show the hot spot coordinates.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To set a cursor's hot spot:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab On the control bar of image-editor window, click the Hot spot button \{bmc bm193.mrb\}, or from the Image menu, choose Set Cursor Hotspot.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Click the pixel you want to designate as the cursor's hot spot.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} editing toolbar graphics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1_54OGX}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing toolbar graphics;graphics editor;grid settings;tile grid;toolbars}
\b Editing Toolbar Graphics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 App Studio's graphics editor has special features to simplify creation of tiled graphics for toolbar buttons (see the class \b CToolBar\plain\fs20  in the \i Class Library Reference\plain\fs20 ). All the button bitmaps for a toolbar are taken from one bitmap, which must contain one image for each button. All images must be the same size; the default is 16 x 15 pixels. Images must be side by side in the bitmap. Typically the order of the images in the bitmap is the order in which they are drawn on the screen.
\par Each button has one image. The various button states and styles (pressed, up, down, disabled, disabled down, and indeterminate) are generated from that one image. Although bitmaps can be any color, best results are achieved with images in black and shades of gray.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 The graphics editor can superimpose a tile grid on the view of your bitmap. The tile grid delimits sections of the bitmap in dimensions you specify so that you can properly position tile images within the bitmap. When the tile grid is displayed, the graphics editor's behavior changes in ways that simplify resizing a tiled bitmap.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To set the tile-grid dimensions:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Image menu, select Grid Settings (\fs17 CTRL+G)\fs20 .
\par \tab The Grid Settings dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Grid Settings dialog box, select the Pixel Grid check box if it is not already checked.
\par \tab You cannot set the Tile Grid dimensions if the Pixel Grid check box is not checked.
\par 3.\tab Check the Tile Grid check box (\fs17 CTRL+G)\fs20 .
\par 4.\tab If necessary, edit the Width and Height settings.
\par \tab Typically, these settings are the same as the width and height of your button bitmaps.
\par 5.\tab Click OK.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The image editor window now displays a tile grid.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To toggle the display of the tile grid:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm194.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 CTRL+G.\fs20 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\fs20   When the tile grid is displayed, the sizing handles on the selection border behave differently than they do when the tile grid is not displayed. (See \uldb Resizing a Bitmap.\plain\fs20 {\v 3RZ3TD}) When you drag the sizing handles, the bitmap is resized in increments of the tile dimensions.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new toolbar button:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Display the tile grid.
\par 2.\tab If necessary, select a background color for the new button.
\par 3.\tab To resize the bitmap, drag the sizing handle on the right side of the bitmap to the right. The bitmap's width is increased by an amount equal to the tile grid's Width setting.
\par 4.\tab If the new button is to be added at a position other than the right end of the bitmap, make room for it:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm195.bmp\}\tab Select the rightmost button images, including the one at the new button's position.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm196.bmp\}\tab Drag the selection to the right, using the tile grid to align the images.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 5.\tab Draw the new button image in the space you have created.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 321RCSP}
\pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %21Y83CL}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Picking Up Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %JJB0QS}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Inverting Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %COU4NW}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Changing the Number of Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %OXXMS4}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Selecting Foreground and Background Colors}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 21Y83CL}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} colors;graphics editor;selecting colors;working with colors}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 321RCSP}\plain\b\fs20   Selecting Foreground and Background Colors
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Except for the eraser, the tools on the graphics palette draw with the current foreground or background color when you press the left or right mouse button, respectively.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select a foreground color:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm197.bmp\}\tab With the left mouse button, click the desired color on the color palette.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To select a background color:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm198.bmp\}\tab With the right mouse button, click the desired color on the color palette.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Picking Up Colors}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} JJB0QS}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} colors;graphics editor;picking up colors;working with colors}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 321RCSP}\plain\b\fs20   Picking Up Colors
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The color-pickup tool makes any color on the bitmap the current foreground color or background color, depending on whether you press the left or the right mouse button. You can pick up a color on each button.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To pick up a color:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the toolbox, select the color-pickup tool \{bmc bm199.mrb\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut: \fs17 COMMA\fs20 
\par \tab The cursor changes to the "eyedropper."
\par 2.\tab Click the bitmap area containing the color you want to pick up:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm200.bmp\}\tab Left mouse button for the foreground color
\par \{bmc bm201.bmp\}\tab Right mouse button for the background color
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab After you pick up a color, the graphics editor reactivates the most recent tool you used before the color-pickup tool.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To cancel the color-pickup tool:\b 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm202.bmp\}\tab Choose another tool or press \fs17 ESC\fs20 .
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Inverting Colors}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} COU4NW}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} colors;graphics editor;inverting colors;working with colors}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 321RCSP}\plain\b\fs20   Inverting Colors
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 So that you can tell how a bitmap will appear with inverted colors, App Studio provides a convenient way to invert colors in the selected part of the bitmap.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To invert colors in the current selection:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm203.bmp\}\tab From the Image menu, select Invert Colors.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changing the Number of Colors in a Bitmap}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} OXXMS4}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} changing number of colors;colors;graphics editor;working with colors}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 321RCSP}\plain\b\fs20   Changing the Number of Colors in a Bitmap
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you increase the number of colors in a bitmap, the image does not change but you can add more colors.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the number of colors in a bitmap:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the Properties window to activate it.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose the appropriate setting in the Colors combo box.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 9XGNTV}
\pard\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating Color Palettes\plain\fs20 {\v %5B5.0OL}
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Saving and Loading Palettes\plain\fs20 {\v %DC.J01}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The graphics editor's color palette displays 24 of the 48 "ready-made" colors that are available. In addition to the ready-made colors, you can create your own custom colors. Color-palette selections can be saved to disk and reloaded as necessary.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating Color Palettes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5B5.0OL}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} color palettes;graphics editor;managing the color palette}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 9XGNTV}\plain\b\fs20   Creating Color Palettes
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change colors on the color palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Double-click the color you want to change, or click the color and then from the Image menu choose Edit Foreground Color.
\par \tab The Color dialog box appears. The color you are changing is outlined.
\par 2.\tab Click the color you want to assign in place of the current color.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Click OK.
\par \pard\sa115\li235 \f3 \{bmc bm204.mrb\}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \f4 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a custom color:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Double-click on the color you want to change or from the Image menu choose Edit Palette Colors.
\par \tab The Color dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab Choose Define Custom Colors.
\par \tab The custom-color dialog box then appears.
\par 3.\tab Click the Custom Colors box in which you want to store the new custom color.
\par 4.\tab Define the color by typing in RGB or HSL values, or by moving the cross hairs on the color box.
\par 5.\tab Set the luminance by moving the slider on the luminance bar.
\par 6.\tab Many custom colors are dithered. If you want the solid color closest to the dithered color, choose the Color|Solid control. (If you later decide you want the dithered color, move the slider or the cross hairs again to restore the dithering.)
\par 7.\tab Choose a disposition for the new color you have created:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm205.bmp\}\tab To add the new color to the Custom Colors control, click Add to Custom Colors.
\par \{bmc bm206.bmp\}\tab To substitute the new custom color for the current palette color, choose OK. The color will be available for later use only if you add it to the Custom Colors control.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm207.bmp\}\tab To save the custom color for later use, without replacing the current palette color, add the color to Custom Colors control. Choose Cancel.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Custom-color definitions are saved in APSTUDIO.INI and are automatically loaded the next time you start App Studio.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Saving and Loading Palettes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_graphed')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_graphed')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DC.J01}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} color palettes;graphics editor;managing the color palette}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 9XGNTV}\plain\b\fs20   Saving and Loading Palettes
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To save a custom palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Image menu, choose Save Palette Colors.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Use the Save Palette Colors dialog box to navigate directories and enter a file name.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To load a custom palette:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Image menu, choose Get Palette Colors.
\par 2.\tab Use the Get Palette Colors dialog box to navigate directories and choose a file name.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\fs20   Since the graphics editor has no means to restore the default color palette, save the default color palette under a name such as STANDARD.PAL or DEFAULT.PAL so that you can restore the defaults without having to quit and restart App Studio.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} App Studio basics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3L_E0HA}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} App Studio basics;files;projects;resource browser;resources}
\f5\b App Studio Basics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn about working with resources and files\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Managing resource files with App Studio\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %OC22GM}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create and open resource files\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a new resource file; opening an existing resource file; adding framework support to a resource file\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %2A9F1S5}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Browse resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the resource browser window to view the contents of a resource file\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J3XZ0}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Create or edit a new resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a new resource; editing an existing resource; using drag and drop; using redo and undo\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v 3QPW_PO}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit resource properties\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using the App Studio Properties window\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}\ul {\v 11A_3WD}\plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\fs20 Transfer resources between files\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Moving resources between files; importing or exporting graphics resources\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %_TKOUR}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Use advanced resource file techniques\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Changing the name of the symbol header file; using shared symbols; including resources from other files\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %B1Z.4F}\plain\f5\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} working with resources and files}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} OC22GM}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} files;projects;resources;working with resources and files}
\b\fs20 Working with Resources and Files
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Resources
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 App Studio supports many different ways of working with resources. You can:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm208.bmp\}\tab Load and save resource script (.RC) files.
\par \{bmc bm209.bmp\}\tab Load and save Windows executables, dynamic-link libraries (DLLs), and compiled resource files.
\par \{bmc bm210.bmp\}\tab Use App Studio as a stand-alone editor for bitmaps, icons, or cursors.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm211.bmp\}\tab Import or export graphics resources to or from your current resource file.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 In most cases, it is easiest to work with App Studio's single .RC file. However, App Studio can accommodate other ways of organizing a project. You can:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm212.bmp\}\tab Work with nested resource files and conditionally included resource files.
\par \{bmc bm213.bmp\}\tab Include shared or read-only identifiers (symbols) that can't be modified by App Studio.
\par \{bmc bm214.bmp\}\tab Include resources in your executable file (.EXE) that don't require editing (or that you don't want to be edited) during your current project (such as resources that are shared among several projects).
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm215.bmp\}\tab Include resource types not supported by App Studio.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 When you create a new resource or an object within a resource, App Studio assigns it an identifier, or symbol, consisting of a text string mapped to an integer value. You can change the symbol name or value in the Properties window when you create the resource, and you can view existing symbols and add new ones with the Symbol Browser as you work.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Files
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 App Studio lets you open the following types of files:
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b\ul File Extension\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Description\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\fs20 .RC \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Resource script file\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 .RES\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Compiled resource script file\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 .EXE \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Executable file\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 .DLL \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Dynamic-link library\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 .BMP, .DIB, .ICO,\line
.CUR \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Graphics files containing bitmaps, icons, or cursors\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 In addition, you can save an existing resource, executable file, or graphics file as one of the following:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm216.bmp\}\tab .EXE (for an existing executable)
\par \{bmc bm217.bmp\}\tab .RC
\par \{bmc bm218.bmp\}\tab .RES (a compiled resource file)
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm219.bmp\}\tab .BMP, .DIB, .ICO, or .CUR (if you are working with a graphics file only and not a resource script file)
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 App Studio also works with several additional files during your resource editing session:
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b\ul Filename\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Description\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\fs20 RESOURCE.H \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Header file generated by App Studio; contains symbol definitions.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \i projectname.\plain\f5\fs20 APS \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Binary version of the current resource file; used by App Studio for quick loading.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2395\cellx7195\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \i projectname\plain\f5\fs20 .CLW\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 File containing information about the current project; used by ClassWizard.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} creating and opening resource files}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2A9F1S5}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} adding framework support;creating and opening resource files;files;projects;reading in existing resource files;resource files;resources}
\b\fs20 Creating and Opening Resource Files
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating a New Resource File\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2N96AWC}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Opening a Visual C++ Resource File\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7CEY_MB}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Reading Resource Files Not Created with App Studio or AppWizard\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F88N4H}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Converting an Existing Resource File\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %46ESJJ}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Adding Framework Support\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %TWYPH5}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can use App Studio to create a new resource script file, a compiled resource (.RES) file, or a graphics resource file. You can also choose to include Microsoft Foundation Class Library support in the resource file you create.
\par This section provides two ways of starting a resource editing session from the Visual C++ Visual Workbench. The instructions assume that you have started Visual Workbench and created a basic set of new project files using AppWizard.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating a New Resource File}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2N96AWC}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} creating resource files;files;resource files;resources}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2A9F1S5}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Creating a New Resource File
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To create a new resource file:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose New. 
\par \tab The New dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab Choose a file type from the list of choices: bitmap, icon, cursor, resource script file (.RC), or compiled resource file (.RES).
\par 3.\tab Set or clear the Use Microsoft Foundation Classes option as appropriate. 
\par \tab For information on features specific to Microsoft Foundation Class resource files, see \uldb Adding Framework Support.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v TWYPH5}
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm220.bmp\}\tab Click the New File button on the App Studio toolbar \{bmc bm221.mrb\}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab A new resource script file with Microsoft Foundation Class Library support is created. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   You can change the type of resource file created by changing the UseMfc settings in \uldb APSTUDIO.INI.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 31Z1J49}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Opening a Visual C++ Resource File}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7CEY_MB}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} files;opening resource files;resource files;resources}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2A9F1S5}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Opening a Visual C++ Resource File
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To open a resource file from Visual Workbench:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm222.bmp\}\tab From the Tools menu, choose App Studio.
\par \tab This executes App Studio and opens the .RC file with the same base name as the current project.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Options menu, choose Editor.
\par \tab The Editor dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab Under Source Files, select the Open RC Files Using App Studio option (normally turned off). 
\par 3.\tab Click the Project Files button on the Visual Workbench toolbar and choose your project's .RC file.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Options menu, choose Editor.
\par \tab The Editor dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab Under Source Files, select the Open RC Files Using App Studio option (normally turned off). 
\par 3.\tab From the File menu, choose Open.
\par 4.\tab In the File Type box, choose *.RC from the list of file types.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 5.\tab Open the .RC file for your project.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Visual Workbench executes App Studio and loads the project resource file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To open a resource file from App Studio:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Start App Studio from the Windows Program Manager.
\par 2.\tab From the App Studio File menu, choose Open.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Open your project's .RC file for editing.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 For information on a recommended file structure for Visual C++ projects, see the discussion of the files created by AppWizard in Chapter 13 of \i Visual Workbench User's Guide.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Reading Resource Files Not Created with App Studio or AppWizard}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} F88N4H}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} files;projects;reading in existing resource files;resource files;resources}
\uldb \plain\f5\b\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2A9F1S5}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Reading Resource Files Not Created with App Studio or AppWizard
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 When you start a new Visual C++ product, you normally use AppWizard to create a set of basic starter files. These starter files include an App Studio-compatible .RC file that contains support for Microsoft Foundation Class Library features. However, you can also update existing .RC files for use with App Studio.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  \cf1 To \plain\f5\fs20 update an existing resource file for use with App Studio:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Make a backup copy of your existing .RC file.
\par 2.\tab Add the .RC file to your project using Visual Workbench (see Chapter 8 of the \i Visual Workbench User's Guide\plain\f5\fs20 ).
\par 3.\tab Open the file in App Studio according to the instructions in the previous section.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   App Studio uses the include path set in Visual Workbench (from the Visual Workbench Options menu, choose Directories). In addition, relative include paths in an App Studio resource file must be based on the directory where the .RC file is currently located.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Save the App Studio version of the resource file.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Reading in and then saving resource files not created by AppWizard or App Studio has two results that are important to be aware of:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4 \{bmc bm223.bmp\}\f5 \tab App Studio makes several changes to how your resource files are organized so that you can work with all your resources in one place. 
\par \f4 \{bmc bm224.bmp\}\f5 \tab Several resource-related features supported by the Microsoft Foundation Class Library are automatically available when your resource script file includes the library file AFXRES.H. For instructions on how to manually add framework support to existing .RC files, see \uldb Adding Framework Support.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v TWYPH5}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Converting Existing Resource Files to App Studio Format}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 46ESJJ}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} files;projects;reading in existing resource files;resource files;resources}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2A9F1S5}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Converting Existing Resource Files to App Studio Format
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Saving a non-App Studio resource script file for the first time in App Studio has several important consequences:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm225.bmp\}\tab Resources contained in files that were added to your old .RC file with include statements are written back to disk as part of the main App Studio resource file. 
\par \tab If your old project had dialog boxess in a separate .DLG file, this separate file is no longer needed since App Studio moves the dialog boxes into the main .RC file.
\par \tab However, if you have resource files containing resources that you do not want to edit in App Studio, or that you want to continue to store in a separate resource file (such as a version resource file), move the resource to a separate file and add it back by using the File menu's Set Includes command. For more information, see \uldb Using Advanced Resource File Techniques.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v B1Z.4F}.
\par \{bmc bm226.bmp\}\tab Any symbol definitions included in your old .RC file are marked as read-only symbols by App Studio the first time you save the .RC file. To make the symbols available for modification and editing, remove them from the included header file and place them in the App Studio resource header, resource.h.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm227.bmp\}\tab Symbols that are defined with expressions rather than integers and used in the resource file are evaluated by App Studio, but they are then written to the App Studio symbols header (.H) file as simple integers. To preserve the expressions for calculated symbol values, include them in a read-only symbols header file. For more information, see \uldb Using Advanced Resource File Techniques.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v B1Z.4F}
\par \{bmc bm228.bmp\}\tab Conditional compilation statements in your old .RC file are evaluated by App Studio the first time the file is read in, but they are not written back to disk when you save the .RC file. 
\par \tab \b\fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   To preserve conditional compilation statements you should place the sections of your old .RC file containing these statements in a separate file, then include the file using the File menu's Set Includes command. For more information, see \uldb Including Resources from Other Files.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v LJS7AD}
\par \{bmc bm229.bmp\}\tab Comments in your old .RC file are not preserved.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 In most cases App Studio makes it easy and convenient to work with all your resources and symbols in a single App Studio file. However, App Studio also supports a nested resource file structure, conditionally included resource files, and expressions as symbol values if your project requires it. For more information, see \uldb Using Advanced Resource File Techniques.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v B1Z.4F}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Adding Framework Support}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} TWYPH5}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} adding framework support;files;projects;resources}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 2A9F1S5}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Adding Framework Support
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Normally when you build a Visual C++ application from scratch using AppWizard, you start by generating a basic set of files, including a resource file, that contain the core features of the Microsoft Foundation classes. 
\par However, if you are editing a resource file that does not have include statements for the Microsoft Foundation Class Library resource and symbol files, the following features specific to the Microsoft Foundation Class Library are not available in App Studio:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm230.bmp\}\tab ClassWizard
\par \{bmc bm231.bmp\}\tab Menu prompt strings
\par \{bmc bm232.bmp\}\tab Support for VBX controls
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm233.bmp\}\tab List Contents for combo-box controls
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can, however, add framework support to existing resource script files that do not have it.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To add framework support to .RC files that do not already have it:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose Set Includes.
\par \tab The Set Includes dialog appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Read-Only Symbol Directives box, replace the include statement for WINDOWS.H with the following: 
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f8\fs18 #include "afxres.h"
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f5\fs20 3.\tab You may also need to add additional include files using the Compile-Time Directives box. For more information, see the \i Class Library Reference\plain\f5\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4. Close the resource file and then reopen it for the changes to take place.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} browsing your application's resources}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J3XZ0}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} browsing resources;resources}
\b Browsing Resources\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 At the beginning of a resource editing session, the first App Studio window to appear is the resource browser. You can use the resource browser window to
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm234.bmp\}\tab View the resources in the file by category.
\par \{bmc bm235.bmp\}\tab Create new resources.
\par \{bmc bm236.bmp\}\tab Delete existing resources.
\par \{bmc bm237.bmp\}\tab Move resources from one file to another.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4 \{bmc bm238.bmp\}\f5 \tab View and edit a resource's basic properties in the Properties window.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To browse your application's resources:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm239.bmp\}\tab Select a resource in the Type box. 
\par \tab The resources in your file of the type or types you selected are listed in the Resources box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Select a single resource by clicking with the mouse. Select multiple contiguous resources by holding down the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  key and clicking. Select multiple discontiguous resources by holding down the \fs17 CTRL\fs20  key and clicking. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   You can find a resource in the resource browser window by typing the first few letters of its symbol name. Move the focus to the resource list by clicking any resource in the list. Then start typing the ID of the resource. The resource browser selects the first resource that matches the letters you type.
\par When a resource in the Resources box is selected but is not currently being edited in an App Studio editing window (or the editing window is minimized), you can view and edit the resource's basic properties in the Properties window. See the \uldb Resource property page\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 17LJSIE} for more information.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3QPW_PO}
\pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Creating a New Resource\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %NS5BGJ}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Editing an Existing Resource\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12E7FM_}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Directly Manipulating User-Interface Objects\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3NXJPZJ}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using Undo and Redo\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1PWC_T_}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating a New Resource}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} NS5BGJ}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} creating a new resource;resources}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 3QPW_PO}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Creating a New Resource
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 There are several ways to create a new resource in App Studio. You can use the resource browser window or the \uldb App Studio toolbar.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 07ANTJ}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To create a new resource:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm240.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the button you want.
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par 1.\tab In the resource browser window, click New, or from the Resources menu, choose New.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+R\fs20  
\par 2.\tab Select the resource you want from the list of choices and click OK.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The editor window for the resource you chose appears.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Editing an Existing Resource}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12E7FM_}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} editing resources;resources}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 3QPW_PO}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Editing an Existing Resource 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   To edit an existing resource:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Move to the resource browser window.
\par 2.\tab In the Type box, select the type of resource you want.
\par \tab A list of the resources of that type in the current file appears in the Resources box.
\par 3.\tab In the Resources box, select name or identifier of the resource you want to edit.
\par 4.\tab Choose Open. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The editing window for the resource you chose appears.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   There are other ways to open a resource for editing. In addition to choosing Open in the resource browser window, you can 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm241.bmp\}\tab Select the resource and press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 .
\par \{bmc bm242.bmp\}\tab Double-click the resource.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm243.bmp\}\tab Select the resource, and from the Resource menu, choose Open.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   You can always activate the resource browser for the current file by pressing \fs17 CTRL+F2\fs20 .
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Directly Manipulating User-Interface Objects}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3NXJPZJ}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} resources;user-interface objects: manipulating directly}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 3QPW_PO}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Directly Manipulating User-Interface Objects
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 In many cases App Studio allows you to edit user-interface objects by directly manipulating them. For example, you can
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm244.bmp\}\tab Place controls in a dialog box by dragging them from the control palette into the dialog box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm245.bmp\}\tab Rearrange menu items by moving them from one place to another with the mouse.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 One of the most common direct-manipulation techniques is referred to throughout this manual as "drag and drop." This means that you position an object by dragging it with the mouse or other pointing device and dropping it in its new location. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To move or reposition an object using drag and drop:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Point to the object you want to move or position and hold down the left mouse button.
\par 2.\tab While still holding down the button, drag the object to its new location.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab When the object is in position, drop it by releasing the button. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using Undo and Redo}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1PWC_T_}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} redo;resources;undo}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 3QPW_PO}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Using Undo and Redo
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Multiple-level undo and redo is a powerful tool for iterative design in App Studio. Undo reverses the effect of the last operation and redo reverses the effect of the last undo. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 Normally you can undo your last ten actions, but you can change this number by changing the value in \uldb APSTUDIO.INI\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 31Z1J49}. Most common operations in App Studio can be undone, including actions such as dragging and dropping that involve moving from one App Studio window to another.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To undo an operation:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm246.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the Undo button \{bmc bm247.bmp\}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Or from the Edit menu, choose Undo. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut\fs17 : CTRL+Z\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To redo an operation:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm248.bmp\}\tab On the App Studio toolbar, click the Redo button \{bmc bm249.mrb\}. 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Or from the Edit menu, choose Redo.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab Shortcut\fs17 : CTRL+A\fs20 
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11A_3WD}
\pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using the Properties Window\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PYUZJ8}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Viewing Property Pages\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ONTK5P}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controlling the Properties Window\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %TTIYX.}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using the Properties Window}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} PYUZJ8}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} properties window}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11A_3WD}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Using the Properties Window
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The Properties window is one of the most important features of App Studio; it allows you to control the appearance and behavior of the resources you create. Once you have used App Studio for a short time you will become quite familiar with how the Properties window works. To get a head start, however, there are a few things you should know:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm250.bmp\}\tab The Properties window contains one or more property pages that apply to the resource or resource object that is currently selected. 
\par \{bmc bm251.bmp\}\tab If the editing window for the selected resource is closed or minimized, only the \uldb Resource property page\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 17LJSIE} (showing basic information about the resource) is available.
\par \{bmc bm252.bmp\}\tab You can control whether the Properties window stays visible while you are working in another window (for example, an editor window) or is dismissed once you switch to another window.
\par \{bmc bm253.bmp\}\tab Changes made on a property page take effect as soon as you make them. For an edit box, changes take effect as soon as you switch to another window or control. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm254.bmp\}\tab You can use App Studio's property pages and multiple-level undo as a design tool. Experiment with various property settings and then back them out with \fs17 CTRL+Z\fs20  if they're not what you want. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Viewing Property Pages}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1ONTK5P}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;viewing property pages}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11A_3WD}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Viewing Property Pages
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Property pages divide resource properties into logical groupings so that they are easier to view and edit.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To display the Properties window:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm255.bmp\}\tab From the Windows menu, choose Show Properties. 
\par \f2 -\f5  Or \f2 -\f5 
\par \{bmc bm256.bmp\}\tab Choose one of the following shortcuts:
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm257.bmp\}\tab For resources with a caption, select the resource and start typing the caption.
\par \{bmc bm258.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  when a resource is selected in an editing window.
\par \{bmc bm259.bmp\}\tab Press \fs17 ALT+ENTER\fs20  at any time.
\par \pard\sa235\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm260.bmp\}\tab Choose the Properties command at the bottom of the resource browser window.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   You can display the Properties window quickly by double-clicking the object whose properties you want to edit.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To move from one property page to another in the Properties window:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the Resources box, select the resource whose properties you want to edit.
\par 2.\tab Display the Properties window if it is not currently displayed: from the Window menu, choose Show Properties. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab In the property page box at the upper-right corner of the Properties window, choose the category of properties you want to edit from the list of property pages.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   With the Properties window displayed, you can quickly move from one property page to another using the \fs17 PAGE UP\fs20  and \fs17 PAGE DOWN\fs20  keys.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} using the properties window}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} TTIYX.}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controlling the properties window;properties window}
\ul \b\ul \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v 11A_3WD}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Controlling the Properties Window
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 You can control the behavior of the Properties window to suit your working style or the nature of the resource editing task. Use the "pushpin" command button in the upper-left corner of the Properties window:
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm261.bmp\}\tab When the button is in the down position \{bmc bm262.mrb\}, the Properties window stays visible even when you are working in another window. This is convenient if, during an editing session, you want to move back and forth frequently between setting properties and editing objects. Pressing \fs17 ENTER\fs20  after you change a value in the Properties window returns you to the editing window but leaves the Properties window visible. Pressing \fs17 Esc\fs20  cancels any changes you made and returns you to the editing window.
\par \pard\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm263.bmp\}\tab When the button is in the up position \{bmc bm264.mrb\}, you can dismiss the active Properties window by pressing \fs17 ENTER\fs20  or \fs17 ESC\fs20 . This is useful if you want to concentrate on working in an editing window but need to bring up the Properties window briefly to change one or two values. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} transferring resources between files}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _TKOUR}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} bitmaps;copying resources between files;cursors;exporting graphics files;icons;importing graphics files;projects;resource files;resources;transferring resources between files}
\b Transferring Resources Between Files
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The easiest way to transfer resources from an existing resource or executable file to your current resource file is to have both files open in App Studio at the same time. Then use drag and drop to move items from one resource browser window to another.
\par \b\fs18 Note\fs20   \plain\f5\fs20 Visual C++ provides a file that contains sample resources that you can use in your own application.
\par You can use the Resource menu's Import command to add bitmap, icon, or cursor files to your current App Studio project. You can save graphics resources to disk as separate files using the Export command.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To copy resources from one file to another:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Open both files. Make sure both resource browsers are visible.
\par 2.\tab In the resource browser window of the "from" file, select the resource you want to copy.
\par 3.\tab Drag the resource to the resource browser window of the "to" file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \b \tab \fs18 Note\plain\f5\fs20   To avoid conflicts with symbol names or values in the existing file, App Studio may change the transferred resource's symbol value, or symbol name and value, when you copy it to the new file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To import a separate bitmap, icon, or cursor file into your current resource file:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the Resource menu, choose Import. The Import dialog box appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose the name of the .BMP, .ICO, or .CUR file you want to import. When you choose OK, the file is added to the current resource file.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Tip\plain\f5\fs20   You can also transfer a bitmap, icon, or cursor into your current resource file by dragging it from a File Manager window and dropping it into the App Studio resource browser window.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To save a bitmap, icon, or cursor as a separate file:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Select the bitmap, icon, or cursor you want to export. App Studio exports the graphic selected in the resource browser window or the graphic in the currently active image-editor window.
\par 2.\tab From the Resource menu, choose Export.
\par 3.\tab Enter a new filename for the bitmap, icon, or cursor, or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to accept the current filename.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The graphics file is saved to disk.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} advanced resource file techniques}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} B1Z.4F}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} advanced resource file techniques;calculated symbols;projects;read-only symbols;resource files;RESOURCE.H;resources;resources: including from other files;Set Includes dialog box;shared symbols;symbols;symbols header files}
\b Advanced Resource File Techniques
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Changing the Name of the Symbols Header File\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %32INRD6}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using Read-Only or Calculated Symbols\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XRHZ6S}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Including Resources from Other Files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LJS7AD}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can use the File menu's Set Includes command to modify App Studio's normal working arrangement of storing all resources in the project .RC file and all symbols in RESOURCE.H. (For more information on symbols, see \uldb Using the Symbol Browser.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v topic_symbed}) Use the Symbol Header File box to change the name of the header file where App Studio stores the symbol definitions for your resource file.
\par Use the Read-Only Symbol Directives box to include header files with symbols that you don't want to be modified during an App Studio editing session. For example, you can use the Read-Only Symbol Directives box to include a symbol file that has been created to be shared among several projects. the Read-Only Symbol Directives box is also used to include Microsoft Foundation Class Library .H files.
\par Use the Compile-Time Directives box to include resource files that 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm265.bmp\}\tab Are created and edited separately from the resources in your main resource file.
\par \{bmc bm266.bmp\}\tab Contain compile-time directives, such as directives that conditionally include resources.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm267.bmp\}\tab Contain resources in a custom format.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The Compile Time Directives box is also used to include standard Microsoft Foundation Class Library resource files.
\par Once you've made changes to your resource file using the Set Includes dialog box, you need to close the file and then reopen it for the changes to take effect.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Changing the Name of the Symbols Header File}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 32INRD6}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} advanced resource file techniques;resource files;RESOURCE.H;resources:resources;Set Includes dialog box;symbols;symbols header files}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B1Z.4F}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Changing the Name of the Symbols Header File
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Normally App Studio saves all symbol definitions to RESOURCE.H\fs17 . \fs20 However, you may need to change this include filename so you can, for example, work with more than one resource file in the same project.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To change the name of the resource symbol header file:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose Set Includes. 
\par \tab The Set Includes dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Symbol Header File box, type the new name for the include file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 3.\tab Choose OK.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using Read-Only or Calculated Symbols}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XRHZ6S}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} advanced resource file techniques;calculated symbols;read-only symbols;resource files;RESOURCE.H;resources;symbols}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B1Z.4F}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Using Read-Only or Calculated Symbols
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The first time App Studio reads in a non-App Studio resource file it marks all the included header files it finds as read-only. Subsequently you can use the File menu's Set Includes command to add additional read-only symbol header files.
\par One reason you may want to use read-only symbol definitions is to share symbol files among several projects.
\par Another reason to use included symbol files is if you have existing resources with symbol definitions that use expressions rather than simple integers to define the symbol value. For example,
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 #define   IDC_CONTROL1 2100
\par #define   IDC_CONTROL2 IDC_CONTROL1+1
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f5\fs20 App Studio will correctly interpret these calculated symbols as long as
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm268.bmp\}\tab The calculated symbols are placed in a read-only symbols file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm269.bmp\}\tab Your resource file contains resources to which these calculated symbols are already assigned.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To include read-only symbols in your resource file:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From the File menu, choose Set Includes. The Set Includes dialog box appears.
\par 2.\tab In the Read-Only Symbol Directives box, use the \f15\fs18 #include\f5\fs20  compiler directive to specify the file where you want the read-only symbols to be kept. (The file should not be called RESOURCE.H since that is the filename normally used by App Studio's main symbol header file.)
\par 3.\tab Place the symbols in the file you specified. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The symbols in files included in this way are evaluated each time you open your resource file, but they are not rewritten to disk by App Studio when you save your file.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Important\plain\f5\fs20   What you type in the Read-Only Symbol Directives box is included in the resource file exactly as you type it, with no parsing. Make sure what you type does not contain any spelling or syntax errors.
\par You should use the Read-Only Symbol Directives box to include files with symbol definitions only, not resource definitions. App Studio places resources included with the Read-Only Symbol Directives box in the main resource file when it is saved, thus creating duplicate resource definitions.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} advanced resource file techniques}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_basics')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_resource_browser')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LJS7AD}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} advanced resource file techniques;resource files;RESOURCE.H;resources;resources: including from other files;Set Includes dialog box}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v B1Z.4F}\plain\f5\b\fs20   Including Resources from Other Files
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Normally it is easy and convenient to work with App Studio's default arrangement of all resources in one .RC file. However, you can add resources in other files to your current project at compile time. Use the Compile-Time Directives box in the Set Includes dialog box.
\par There are several reasons to place resources in a file other than App Studio's main resource file:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm270.bmp\}\tab To include resources that have already been developed and tested, and need no further modification.
\par \{bmc bm271.bmp\}\tab To include resources that are being used by several different projects, or that are part of a source code version control system, and thus must exist in a central location where modifications will affect all projects.
\par \{bmc bm272.bmp\}\tab To include resources (such as RCDATA resources) that are in a custom format.
\par \{bmc bm273.bmp\}\tab To include statements in your resource file that execute conditionally at compile time by using compiler directives such as \f15\fs18 #ifdef\f5\fs20  and \f15\fs18 #elseif\f5\fs20 . For example, your project may have a group of resources that are bracketed by \f15\fs18 #ifdef _DEBUG ... #endif  \f5\fs20 and are thus included only if the constant _\f15\fs18 DEBUG\f5\fs20  is defined at compile time. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm274.bmp\}\tab To include statements in your resource file that modify resource-file syntax by using \f15\fs18 #define\f5\fs20  to implement simple macros.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 If you have sections in your existing resource files that meet any of these conditions, you should place the sections in one or more separate .RC files and include them in your project using the Set Includes dialog box. The \i projectname\plain\f5\fs20 .RC2 file created by AppWizard in the RES subdirectory of a new project is used for this purpose.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To include resource files that will be added to your project at compile time:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Place the resources in a file with a unique filename. (\i projectname\plain\f5\fs17 .\fs20 RC is the filename used for App Studio's main resource file.)
\par 2.\tab From the File menu, choose Set Includes. The Set Includes dialog box appears.
\par 3.\tab In the Compile-Time Directives box, use the \f15\fs18 #include\f5\fs20  compiler directive to include the new resource file in the main App Studio resource file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The resources in files included in this way are made a part of your executable at compile time. They are not available for editing or modification when you are working on your project's main .RC file. You need to work on included resource files in a separate App Studio resource script file.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} APSTUDIO.INI settings}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 31Z1J49}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} APSTUDIO.INI}
\b APSTUDIO.INI Settings
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 APSTUDIO.INI, App Studio's initialization file, is a text file containing information that App Studio retains from one session to another. Most of the settings are "read-write": App Studio reads them at startup and writes them at the end of the session if they have changed.
\par Other settings are "read-only": App Studio reads them at startup but never writes them. You edit APSTUDIO.INI by hand to create or change these settings. This appendix describes the read-only settings you can use to customize App Studio's behavior.
\par Section labels divide APSTUDIO.INI into sections. Each section contains one or more entries consisting of an entry name, an equal sign, and a string:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 [Section Label]\line
EntryName=String\line
AnotherEntry=AnotherString
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f5\fs20 Each part of this appendix shows both the section label and the entry.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Setting the Default .RC File Type
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 [General]\line
UseMFC=\i Bool\plain\f5\fs20 
\par This entry is equivalent to the Use Microsoft Foundation Classes check box in the New dialog box. If \i Bool\plain\f5\fs20  is 1, the check box is checked by default; if \i Bool\plain\f5\fs20  is 0, the check box is cleared by default. If the check box is checked, App Studio creates a resource script (.RC) file that supports Microsoft Foundation Class Library features such as ClassWizard and VBX controls. If the check box is cleared, App Studio creates a standard resource script (.RC) file.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Setting the Number of Undo Levels
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 [General]\line
UndoLevels=\i levels\plain\f5\fs20 
\par The number of undo operations is limited to the number specified by \i levels\plain\f5\fs20 . If this entry does not appear in APSTUDIO.INI, the default of 10 is used.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Using Default Dialog-Box Buttons
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 [Dialog Editor]\line
InitialButtons=\i Bool\plain\f5\fs20 
\par If Bool is 1, dialog-box templates are created with the OK and Cancel buttons. If Bool is 0, they are not.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Setting the Default Magnification Factor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 [Graphics Editor]\line
DefaultZoom=\i int\plain\f5\fs20 
\par Sets the default value for the ratio of magnified and actual-size views in the image-editor window. The range is 2 to 10. If this entry does not appear in APSTUDIO.INI, the default of 6 is used.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Describing Cursor Devices
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 [Cursor Devices]\line
\i name\plain\f5\fs20 =\i colors\plain\f5\fs20 [,]\i width\plain\f5\fs20 [,]\i height\plain\f5\fs20 
\par Specifies the names of display devices and the attributes of their corresponding cursor images. The name of the device is specified by \i name\plain\f5\fs20 . It appears in the New Cursor Image dialog box when you add an image to a cursor. The \i colors\plain\f5\fs20 , \i width\plain\f5\fs20 , and \i height\plain\f5\fs20  entries specify the number of colors supported by the device (subject to App Studio's limit of 16 colors) and the image size in pixels. Windows currently supports only monochrome cursors.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Describing Icon Devices
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 [Icon Devices]\line
\i name\plain\f5\fs20 =\i colors\plain\f5\fs20 [,]\i width\plain\f5\fs20 [,]\i height\plain\f5\fs20 
\par Specifies the names of display devices and the attributes of their corresponding icon images. The name of the device is specified by \i name\plain\f5\fs20 . It appears in the New Cursor Image dialog box when you add an image to a cursor. The \i colors\plain\f5\fs20 , \i width\plain\f5\fs20 , and \i height\plain\f5\fs20  entries specify the number of colors supported by the device (subject to App Studio's limit of 16 colors) and the image size in pixels.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} ClassWizard topics}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `contents')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} topic_classwiz}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard}
\f4\b ClassWizard Topics
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2415\cellx5035\cellx5785\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 How Do I?\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Brief\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Click\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Learn about ClassWizard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating message\f2 -\f4 handling classes and editing message maps with ClassWizard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %1JGHI04}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use ClassWizards tabs\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Selecting One of the tabs in the ClassWizard tabbed dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %92UAO5}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Add a recordset class\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a \b CRecordset\plain\fs20 -derived class for a datase table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %1.NCIGH}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Add a record view class\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a \b CRecordView\plain\fs20 -derived class as a database form with which to view records\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %BC3OG.}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Add or import a class\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creating a new message\f2 -\f4 handling class with ClassWizard, or updating the ClassWizard (.CLW) file to recognize classes you've copied from another project.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %IBZ65Z}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Map messages to functions\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Defining message\f2 -\f4 handling functions with ClassWizard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %J1OK7U}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Work with dialog box data\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Using ClassWizard to take advantage of the framework's built\f2 -\f4 in dialog data exchange and dialog data validation routines\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %J2L4Q_}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Update ClassWizard when code changes\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Updating ClassWizard for renamed, moved, or deleted classes; rebuilding the entire ClassWizard file\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %CS8WRG}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2395\cellx5035\cellx5795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Update existing code for use with ClassWizard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Adding the special\f2 -\f4 format ClassWizard comments to existing code\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v %3CPL78D}\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} using ClassWizard}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1JGHI04}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} .CLW files;ClassWizard;files: .CLW;files: ClassWizard;message maps;using ClassWizard}
\b\fs20 Using ClassWizard
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 ClassWizard is like a programmer's assistant: it makes it easier for you to do certain routine tasks such as creating new classes, defining message handlers, and gathering data from controls in a dialog box or form view.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 One of ClassWizard's main tasks is to work with Microsoft Foundation Class Library "message maps." A map is a message\f2 -\f4 dispatch table that associates Windows messages with class member functions. This eliminates the cumbersome switch statements needed in traditional programming for Windows.
\par With ClassWizard, you can:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm275.bmp\}\tab Create new classes derived from any of the main framework base classes that handle Windows messages.
\par \{bmc bm276.bmp\}\tab Browse the Windows messages associated with windows, dialog boxes, controls, menu items, and accelerators.
\par \{bmc bm277.bmp\}\tab Create new message\f2 -\f4 handling member functions by clicking the messages you want to handle.
\par \{bmc bm278.bmp\}\tab View messages having message handlers already defined and jump to the handler program code.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm279.bmp\}\tab Define member variables that automatically initialize, gather, and validate data entered into dialog boxes or form views.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Important\plain\fs20   ClassWizard never changes any of your code. It only works with the special\f2 -\f4 format message\f2 -\f4 map, data\f2 -\f4 map, and field\f2 -\f4 map sections of your header and implementation files (for more information, see \uldb Adding a New Class).\plain\fs20 {\v 2.1SEX1} The Microsoft Foundation Class Library uses this information for message handling and dialog data exchange and validation.
\par The Visual C++ ClassWizard is used with Microsoft Foundation Class Library version 2 projects. For information on how to convert other projects (including Microsoft Foundation Class Library version 1 projects) for use with ClassWizard, see \uldb Updating Existing Code for Use with ClassWizard.\plain\fs20 {\v 3CPL78D}\uldb  \plain\fs20 
\par You can also update ClassWizard when you've made minor changes to the source code or rebuild the entire ClassWizard (.CLW) file when the changes you've made are more extensive.
\par While you can do any of these common programming functions without using ClassWizard, using ClassWizard together with the framework allows you to accomplish these common chores quickly and efficiently.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} adding a new class or importing an existing one}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IBZ65Z}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} adding a new class;classes;ClassWizard;importing an existing class;using ClassWizard}
\b Adding and Importing Classes
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\} Adding a New Class\plain\fs20 {\v %2.1SEX1}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\} Importing Existing Classes\plain\fs20 {\v %2AMH0L_}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Use ClassWizard to add error\f2 -\f4 free class declarations to your project for classes that contain message\f2 -\f4 handling functions. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   ClassWizard is only for use with user\f2 -\f4 interface classes that handle messages or manage dialog\f2 -\f4 box controls. To add a new class that does not handle messages, create the class directly in the Visual Workbench editor. (Once exception is that you can create \b CRecordset\plain\fs20 -derived classes.)
\par ClassWizard allows you to create classes derived from the Microsoft Foundation classes shown below:
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1VCN1S4}
\b\ul Class\plain\b\fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Description\plain\b\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 CDialog\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Dialog box\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CDocument\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Class for managing program data\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CFormView\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Window that can contain dialog\f2 -\f4 box controls\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CFrameWnd\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Main single document interface (SDI) frame window\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CMDIChildWnd\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Multiple document interface (MDI) child frame window\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CView\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Class for displaying program data\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CScrollView\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Scrolling window, derived from \b CView\plain\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CWnd\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Custom window\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CSplitterWnd\plain\fs20  \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 MDI child frame window containing a CSplitterWnd object\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CRecordView\plain\fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Form view that can display the fields of a database record\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1885\cellx6015\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \b CRecordset\plain\fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Class for selecting and updating database fields\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 For more information on these classes, see the \i Class Library Reference \plain\fs20 and \uldb Database Classes\plain\fs20 {\v 76RVVM}.
\par When you use ClassWizard to create a new class derived from one of the framework classes listed above, it automatically places a complete and functional class in the header (.H) and implementation (.CPP) files you specify. ClassWizard keeps track of the class's message\f2 -\f4 handling and data\f2 -\f4 exchange members, and later you can use it to update this information.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Adding a New Class}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2.1SEX1}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} adding a new class;classes;ClassWizard;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v IBZ65Z}\plain\b\fs20   Adding a New Class
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-185\tx235 \plain\fs20\cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To add a new class to your project using ClassWizard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In Visual Workbench: from the Project menu, choose ClassWizard.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+W\fs20 .
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab In App Studio: click the ClassWizard toolbar button \{bmc bm280.mrb\}, or from the Resource menu, choose ClassWizard.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+W\fs20 .
\par \tab \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   For classes associated with a dialog\f2 -\f4 box resource \{bmc bm281.bmp\} classes derived from \b CDialog\plain\fs20 , \b CFormView\plain\fs20 , or \b CRecordView\plain\fs20  \{bmc bm282.bmp\} create the resource first in App Studio before you use ClassWizard to create the class.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose Add Class. The Add Class dialog box appears.
\par \tab In App Studio, if you are currently editing a dialog box that is not yet associated with a class, the Add Class dialog box appears automatically when you run ClassWizard.
\par 3.\tab Type the name of your new class in the Class Name box, and in the boxes provided, type the names of the header and implementation files where the class is to be defined.
\par 4.\tab In the Class Type box, select the name of the class or class type from which your current class is to be derived.
\par 5.\tab In the Dialog ID box, select the name of the resource identifier from the list. If you are in App Studio, have a dialog box selected, and are creating a class based on \b CDialog\plain\fs20 , \b CFormView\plain\fs20 , or \b CRecordView\plain\fs20 , the identifier is already filled in for you.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab Choose Create Class to create the class in the files you specified.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 When you use ClassWizard to create a new class, it adds skeletal information on the new class to both the header and implementation files. If you specify filenames that don't yet exist, ClassWizard creates the new files and adds them to your project if Visual Workbench is running. 
\par \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   ClassWizard only updates your project file if Visual Workbench is running. If this is not the case, you need to add the files to the project yourself.
\par When you add a new class using ClassWizard, special\f2 -\f4 format comments are placed in your code to mark the sections of the header and implementation files that ClassWizard edits. ClassWizard never modifies code that is outside these commented sections.
\par For most classes, there are two related sections of code that ClassWizard edits: the member\f2 -\f4 function definitions in the class header file and the message-map entries in the class implementation file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 The ClassWizard comments in the header file look like this:
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 \tab //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG(<classname>)
\par \tab \tab // ClassWizard adds member functions here
\par \tab //\'7d\'7dAFX_MSG
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 The ClassWizard section in the implementation file is set off with comments that look like this:
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 \tab //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG_MAP(<classname>)
\par \tab \tab // ClassWizard adds message map macros here
\par \tab //\'7d\'7dAFX_MSG_MAP
\par \f4\fs20 For more information about these comments, see \uldb Updating Existing Code for Use with ClassWizard.\plain\fs20 {\v 3CPL78D}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 For dialog boxes, ClassWizard creates and edits three other sections that are marked with special-format comments:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm283.bmp\}\tab Member variable declarations in the class header file \f15\fs16 (//\{\-\{\-AFX_DATA...//\'7d\'7dAFX_DATA)\f4\fs20 
\par \{bmc bm284.bmp\}\tab Member variable initialization in the class implementation file \f15\fs16 (//\{\-\{\-AFX_DATA_INIT...//\'7d\'7dAFX_DATA_INIT)\f4\fs20 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm285.bmp\}\tab Data\f2 -\f4 exchange macros in the implementation file \f15\fs16 (//\{\-\{\-AFX_DATA_INIT...//\'7d\'7dAFX_DATA_INIT)\f4\fs20 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 For more information, see \uldb Working with Dialog Box Data.\plain\fs20 {\v J2L4Q_}
\par For recordsets, ClassWizard creates and edits similar sections using the comment
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f15\fs16 //\{\-\{\-AFX_FIELD_MAP\f8\fs18 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 For more information , see \uldb Creating a Recordset Class\plain\fs20 {\v 1.NCIGH}. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Importing Existing Classes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2AMH0L_}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} classes;ClassWizardimporting an existing class;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v IBZ65Z}\plain\b\fs20   Importing Existing Classes
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 If you add a message\f2 -\f4 handling class to your current project by copying code from another project, you can update ClassWizard so that it recognizes the new class. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   If the new code you have copied contains more than two or three new message\f2 -\f4 handling classes, you can save time by rebuilding the ClassWizard database file completely rather than importing each new class individually.
\par For more information, see \uldb Rebuilding the ClassWizard File.\plain\fs20 {\v B91W84}
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \cf1 To add a class copied from another project to the ClassWizard database:\plain\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab If the code you are importing doesn't already have ClassWizard comments in it, add the special\f2 -\f4 format comments ClassWizard uses to locate message\f2 -\f4 map entries. For more information, see \uldb Adding a New Class\plain\fs20 {\v 2.1SEX1}
\par 2.\tab Bring up the main ClassWizard dialog box and choose Add Class. When the Add Class dialog box appears, choose Import Class.
\par 3.\tab In the Import Class dialog box, type in the name of the new class and the name of the header and implementation files where it can be found. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Choose OK to add the new class to the ClassWizard database.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} mapping messages to functions}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J1OK7U}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;defining message handlers;deleting message handlers;jumping to source code from ClassWizard;message handlers;using ClassWizard}
\b Mapping Messages to Functions
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Defining Message Handlers\plain\fs20 {\v %87Y8PG}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Deleting Message Handlers\plain\fs20 {\v %1HW06H5}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Jumping to Source Code from ClassWizard\plain\fs20 {\v %19MQ5GR}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 ClassWizard lets you browse the messages associated with a user\f2 -\f4 interface object in your application and quickly define message\f2 -\f4 handling functions for them. ClassWizard also automatically updates the message\f2 -\f4 dispatch table, or message map, when you use ClassWizard to define message\f2 -\f4 handling functions.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The procedure for handling a message is very similar regardless of the kind of user\f2 -\f4 interface object you are working with. The following table shows the types of objects you work with in ClassWizard and the types of messages associated with them.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 14AMK9O}
\b User\f2 -\f4 Interface Objects
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2545\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Object ID\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Messages \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2545\cellx5905\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Class name, represents the containing window \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Windows messages appropriate to a \b CWnd\plain\f2\fs20 -\f4 derived class: a dialog box, window, child window, MDI child window, or topmost frame window\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2545\cellx5905\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Menu or accelerator identifier\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 COMMAND message (executes the program function)
\par\intbl UPDATE_COMMAND_UI message (dynamically updates the menu item)\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2545\cellx5905\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Control identifier\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Control notification messages for the selected control type\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Defining Message Handlers}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 87Y8PG}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;defining message handlers;message handlers;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J1OK7U}\plain\b\fs20   Defining Message Handlers
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 After creating a class with ClassWizard, or importing an existing class, you can use ClassWizard to browse the messages or control notifications associated with each object and to create handler routines (member functions) as appropriate. Selecting a message in ClassWizard provides a brief description of it, or you can press \fs17 F1\fs20  for more detailed information.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The general procedure for using ClassWizard to define a message or command handler is as follows:
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To define a message handler with ClassWizard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In Visual Workbench: from the Project menu, choose ClassWizard. Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+W\fs20 .
\par \tab \f2 -\f4  Or \f2 -\f4 
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab In App Studio: select the user\f2 -\f4 interface object you want to work with. Then click the ClassWizard toolbar button \{bmc bm280.mrb\}, or from the Resource menu, choose ClassWizard.
\par \tab Shortcut: \fs17 CTRL+W\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The main ClassWizard dialog box appears. If you are in Visual Workbench, ClassWizard displays information about the currently selected class name or the class you last edited with ClassWizard. If you are in App Studio, you see information about the user\f2 -\f4 interface object that is currently selected.
\par 2.\tab In the Object IDs box, select the name of the \uldb user\f2 -\f4 interface object\plain\fs20 {\v 14AMK9O} for which you want to define a message handler.
\par 3.\tab In the Messages box, select the message for which you want to define a handler and choose Add Function or double\f2 -\f4 click the message name. 
\par \tab You can only select messages that do not already have a handler defined. A message with a handler already defined has a picture of a small hand next to it.
\par \pard\sa55\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \b \tab \fs18 Note\plain\fs20   The messages you see in the Messages box are those most appropriate to your class. You can change which messages you see by choosing the Class Info command and selecting a new set of messages in the Message Filter box. For information on handling custom messages, see \uldb Technical Note 6.\plain\fs20 {\v TN006@mfcnotes.hlp}
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab For messages that don't already have a handler defined in their base class, the Add Member Function dialog box appears. 
\par \pard\sa35\sl-215\li675\fi-215\tx455 \b \tab Tip  \plain\fs20 Selecting a message displays a brief description of it at the bottom of the ClassWizard dialog box. You can get a more complete description of the message by pressing \fs17 F1\fs20 .
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab For messages that don't already have a handler defined in their base class, type in the member function name you want and press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 , or press \fs17 ENTER\fs20  to accept the name proposed by ClassWizard. This returns you to the main ClassWizard dialog box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab A picture of a hand appears next to the message name to show that a member function is defined to handle the message. The name of the new message\f2 -\f4 handling function appears in the Member Functions box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 At this point you have several options. You can:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm286.bmp\}\tab Add more message handlers.
\par \{bmc bm287.bmp\}\tab Choose Edit Code to jump to the empty ClassWizard\f2 -\f4 generated function in your source code and begin defining the function's behavior.
\par \{bmc bm288.bmp\}\tab Choose OK to close ClassWizard. You can return to ClassWizard any time during the development process.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm289.bmp\}\tab Choose Cancel to cancel the changes you have made.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 When you choose OK or Edit Code, ClassWizard updates your source code as follows:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm290.bmp\}\tab A function declaration is inserted into the header file.
\par \{bmc bm291.bmp\}\tab A complete, correct function definition with a skeletal implementation is inserted into the implementation file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm292.bmp\}\tab The class's message map is updated to include the new message\f2 -\f4 handling function.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Deleting Message Handlers}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1HW06H5}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;deleting message handlers;message handlers;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J1OK7U}\plain\b\fs20   Deleting Message Handlers
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Once you have defined a message handler with ClassWizard, you can also use ClassWizard to delete it. However, you must remove the function definition, as well as any references to the function, from the implementation file yourself. ClassWizard never makes changes to your implementation code\{bmc bm293.bmp\}only to the message, data,and field maps.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To delete a message\f2 -\f4 handling function:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the main ClassWizard dialog box, from the Class Name box, select the class containing the message\f2 -\f4 handling function you want to delete.
\par 2.\tab In the Member Functions box, select the name of the member function to delete.
\par 3.\tab Use the Edit Code command to open the implementation file containing the member function in Visual Workbench. Delete the function header and function body, or copy it to a file not in the current project.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Return to ClassWizard and choose Remove Function. This deletes the member function from the message\f2 -\f4 map entries for that class in both the header and implementation files.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Jumping to Source Code from ClassWizard}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 19MQ5GR}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;jumping to source code from ClassWizard;message handlers;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J1OK7U}\plain\b\fs20   Jumping to Source Code from ClassWizard
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 If Visual Workbench is running, once you have defined a procedure with ClassWizard, you can use the Edit Code command to jump to the member\f2 -\f4 function definition and begin to add or modify code.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To use the ClassWizard Edit Code command (available only when Visual Workbench is running):
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the Member Functions box, select the function you want to edit.
\par 2.\tab Choose Edit Code or double\f2 -\f4 click the function name.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab ClassWizard switches to Visual Workbench and moves to the beginning of the member function.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} working with dialog-box data}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J2L4Q_}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;controls: data exchange and validation;custom data exchange and validation;data exchange;ddv;ddx;dialog box data;dialog data exchange;dialog data validation;using ClassWizard}
\b Working with Dialog-box Data\f5 
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog Data Exchange\plain\fs20 {\v %.463H2}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Using DDX Variables\plain\fs20 {\v %12FE_RJ}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog Data Validation\plain\fs20 {\v %.463HC}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom Data Exchange and Validation\plain\fs20 {\v %718Q4U}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 ClassWizard offers an easy way to take advantage of the dialog data exchange (DDX) and dialog data validation (DDV) capabilities of the Microsoft Foundation classes. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 To use DDX, you define member variables in the dialog\f2 -\f4 box class and associate each of them with a dialog\f2 -\f4 box control. The framework transfers any initial values to the controls when the dialog box is displayed. It then updates the variables with user\f2 -\f4 entered data when the dialog box is dismissed by clicking OK. You can also use DDX with VBX controls.
\par With DDV, dialog box information entered by the user is validated automatically. You can set the validation boundaries: the maximum length for string values in an edit\f2 -\f4 box control or the minimum or maximum numeric values when you expect a number to be entered. You can also use ClassWizard to connect dialog box controls to your own custom data\f2 -\f4 validation routines. 
\par The DDX_Field mechanism used in record views parallels DDX. See \uldb Mapping Record View Controls to Recordset Fields\plain\fs20 {\v BC3OG.}.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Dialog Data Exchange}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .463H2}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;controls: data exchange and validation;data exchange;ddx;dialog box data;dialog data exchange;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J2L4Q_}\plain\b\fs20   Dialog Data Exchange
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 ClassWizard lets you create variables that use the framework's automatic dialog data exchange capabilities. For each dialog box control you want to set an initial value for or gather data from, use ClassWizard to define a data member in the dialog class. The framework then transfers the initial value of each variable to the dialog box when it is created and updates each member variable when the dialog box is dismissed.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Note\plain\fs20   You can also use \b CWnd::UpdateData\plain\fs20  to transfer data back and forth between controls and member variables while a dialog box is open.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To define data members for dialog data exchange:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Create your dialog box in App Studio, place in it the controls you want, and set the appropriate control styles in the Properties window. Then use ClassWizard to define a new dialog box class. For more information, see \uldb Adding a New Class\plain\fs20 {\v 2.1SEX1} .
\par 2.\tab In the ClassWizard dialog box, choose Edit Variables. The Edit Member Variables dialog box appears.
\par 3.\tab Select the control for which you want to set up DDX and choose Add Variable. The Add Member Variable dialog box appears.
\par 4.\tab In the Member Variable Name dialog box, type the name of the new variable. ClassWizard provides the \f15\fs19 m_\f4\fs20  prefix to identify it as a member variable.
\par 5.\tab In the Property box, select whether this variable contains a value or is an object of the control's type. 
\par \tab For standard Windows controls, choose Value in the Property box to create a variable that contains the control's text or status as entered by the user. The framework automatically converts the control's data to the \uldb data type\plain\fs20 {\v 1K9PLLA} selected in the Variable Type box. 
\par \tab For VBX controls, use the Property box to create a member variable for any of a VBX control's properties. The appropriate data type for a given property is reflected in the Variable Type box.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab You can also choose Control in the Property box to create a \uldb Control variable\plain\fs20 {\v AT361D} that gives you access to the control itself. Using that access, you can call the control object's member functions.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab In the Variable Type box, choose from a list of \uldb variable types\plain\fs20 {\v 1K9PLLA} appropriate to the control.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Once you've defined a DDX Value variable for a standard Windows control, the framework automatically initializes and updates the variable for you.
\par The following table shows the type of DDX Value variables ClassWizard initially provides. For more information on creating additional variable types, see \uldb Technical Note 26.\plain\fs20 {\v TN026@mfcnotes.hlp}
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1K9PLLA}
\b DDX Value Variables
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Variable Type\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Edit box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CString, int, UINT, long, DWORD, float, double\plain\fs20  \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Normal check box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b BOOL\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Three\f2 -\f4 state check box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b int\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Radio button (first in group)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b int\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Nonsorted list box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CString, int\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Drop-list combo box \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CString, int\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 All other list box and combo box types\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CString\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \plain\fs20 VBX control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \b CString, int, long, BOOL, float, COLORREF\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The following additional notes apply to using DDX Value variables:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm294.bmp\}\tab Possible values for three\f2 -\f4 state check boxes are 0 (off), 1 (on), and 2 (indeterminate).
\par \{bmc bm295.bmp\}\tab Values for a group of radio buttons range from 0 for the first button in the group to \i n\plain\fs20 1 for a group with \i n\plain\fs20  buttons. A value of 1 indicates that no buttons are selected.
\par \{bmc bm296.bmp\}\tab When you are using a group of check boxes or radio buttons with a DDX variable, make sure the Auto property is set for all the controls in the group. 
\par \{bmc bm297.bmp\}\tab Set the Group property for the first radio button in a group, and make sure all the other radio buttons immediately follow the first button in the tab order.
\par \{bmc bm298.bmp\}\tab To use an integer value with a combo box or list box, make sure the Sort property is turned off on the control's Styles property page. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm299.bmp\}\tab Some VBX custom\f2 -\f4 control properties are read\f2 -\f4 only, and their initial values cannot be set with DDX.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The following table shows the type of DDX Control variables you can define with ClassWizard.
\par \pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} AT361D}
\b DDX Control Variables
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Variable Type\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Edit box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CEdit\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Check box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CButton\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Radio button\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CButton\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Pushbutton\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CButton\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 List box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CListBox\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Combo box or drop list combo box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CComboBox\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Static text\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \b CStatic\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \plain\fs20 VBX custom control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \b CVBControl\cell\intbl\row
\pard \plain\fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using DDX Variables}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12FE_RJ}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} controls: data exchange and validation;data exchange;ddx;dialog data exchange}
\uldb \b\fs20 \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J2L4Q_}\plain\b\fs20   Using DDX Variables
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can set the initial value of DDX variables by editing the initialization code that ClassWizard places in the constructor for the dialog box class. (ClassWizard does not disturb these initialization statements once they have been put in place.) The framework transfers the values to the dialog box when it is created.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 To see what the user typed once the dialog box is dismissed, access the values of the DDX variables just as you would any C++ member variable.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Dialog Data Validation}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .463HC}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;controls: data exchange and validation;ddv;dialog box data;dialog data validation;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J2L4Q_}\plain\b\fs20   Dialog Data Validation
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 By default, ClassWizard supports the types of data validation shown in the following table, but you can add additional types (see \uldb Technical Note 26.\plain\fs20 {\v TN026@MFCNOtes.hlp})
\par \pard\sa235\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1_2K5GV}
\b Data Validation Types
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Variable Type\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Data Validation\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\b\fs20 CString\plain\fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Maximum length\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Numeric (\b int, UINT, long, DWORD, float, double\plain\fs20 )\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Minimum value, maximum value\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can define the maximum length for a \b CString\plain\fs20  DDX variable or the minimum or maximum values for a numeric DDX variable at the time you create it. For example, the ClassWizard Member Variables tab allows you to create a DDX integer variable associated with an edit box. The variable has a minimum value of 1 and a maximum value of 10.
\par At run time, if the value entered by the user exceeds the range you specify, the framework automatically displays a message box asking the user to reenter the value. The validation of DDX variables takes place all at once when the user chooses OK to accept the entries in the dialog box. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Custom Data Exchange and Validation}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 718Q4U}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;custom data exchange and validation;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v J2L4Q_}\plain\b\fs20   Custom Data Exchange and Validation
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Although you can write a dialog\f2 -\f4 box class that gathers and validates its own dialog\f2 -\f4 box data using custom message handlers, you may find that you have routines for data exchange and validation (containing your own variable types and data formats) that you want to use again and again. You can extend the ClassWizard user interface to reuse your own DDX and DDV routines.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 For more information, see \uldb Technical Note 26.\plain\fs20 {\v TN026@mfcnotes.hlp}
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} keeping ClassWizard updated}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CS8WRG}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;updating code;using ClassWizard}
\b Keeping ClassWizard Updated
\par \pard\keepn\sb75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Deleting Classes\plain\fs20 {\v %KKN8_Z}
\par \pard\keepn\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Renaming or Moving Classes\plain\fs20 {\v %6Q6H22}
\par \pard\keepn\sa195\li455\fi-215\tx455 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Rebuilding the ClassWizard File\plain\fs20 {\v %B91W84}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 It's very likely that as your program develops you'll need to delete or modify a class, delete some resources and add others, or move a class from one source file to another. ClassWizard is designed to keep in sync with your code as you make these changes: it asks you for the updated information when you next edit the affected class. 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 ClassWizard stores the information about your application's classes in a file with the file extension .CLW. To accommodate source files that have changed, ClassWizard displays the Repair Class Information dialog box whenever it finds that the information in the .CLW file is out of date.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 The Repair Class Information dialog box has two main functions: 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm300.bmp\}\tab Delete obsolete classes from the ClassWizard database.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm301.bmp\}\tab Update the ClassWizard database with the new name or location of classes that you have changed or moved.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Deleting Classes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} KKN8_Z}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} class;ClassWizard;deleting;updating code;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v CS8WRG}\plain\b\fs20   Deleting Classes
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you delete a class from your header and implementation files, the next time you select that class in ClassWizard, you are prompted to update the information in the ClassWizard database.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To delete a message\f2 -\f4 handling class created with ClassWizard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Remove the class from your header and implementation files. 
\par 2.\tab Open ClassWizard, and in the Class box, select the class you have modified.
\par \tab ClassWizard displays a message box warning you that the class cannot be found. Then the Repair Class Information dialog box appears.
\par 3.\tab Choose Remove. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The class is deleted from the ClassWizard file.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Renaming or Moving Classes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6Q6H22}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} class;ClassWizard;move;rename;updating code;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v CS8WRG}\plain\b\fs20   Renaming or Moving Classes
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you change the name of a class or move it from one implementation file to another, you're prompted to update the information in the .CLW file the next time you edit the class in ClassWizard.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \plain\fs20 To change the name of a class or move it from one file to another:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Make the desired changes to your source files.
\par \b \tab Note\plain\fs20   When you change the name of a class, remember to change it everywhere, including the special\f2 -\f4 format comments ClassWizard uses. For example, 
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG_MAP(OldClass)
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 \tab becomes
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG_MAP(NewClass)
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 2.\tab Invoke ClassWizard. In the Class Name box, choose from the list the class you want to change.
\par \tab ClassWizard displays a message box warning you that the old class could not be found. When you choose OK, the Repair Class Information dialog box appears.
\par 3.\tab In the Class Name, Header File, and Implementation File boxes, supply the new information about the class. If necessary, use the appropriate Browse command to look for the correct name of the header or implementation file.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 4.\tab Choose OK to update the ClassWizard file.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Rebuilding the ClassWizard (.CLW) File}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} B91W84}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa75\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} class;ClassWizard;CLW file;rebuild;updating code;using ClassWizard}
\uldb \b \{bmc bm0.mrb\}{\v CS8WRG}\plain\b\fs20   Rebuilding the ClassWizard (.CLW) File
\par \pard\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 If you have made numerous changes to your code or have added a large number of existing user\f2 -\f4 interface classes to your current project, you may find it convenient to rebuild the ClassWizard file from scratch rather than update it one class at a time. To do this, you delete your project's ClassWizard (.CLW) file and use a dialog box similar to Visual Workbench's Edit Project dialog box to generate a new one. The newly generated .CLW file contains information about all the classes that have the special\f2 -\f4 format ClassWizard comments.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf2 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}   \cf1 To rebuild the ClassWizard file:\plain\fs20 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Delete your project's current .CLW file.
\par 2.\tab Open the project resource file in App Studio so that information about your program's resources can be added to the file as well.
\par 3.\tab Open ClassWizard. A message box is displayed asking if you want to rebuild the ClassWizard database from your project files. Click Yes.
\par 4.\tab The Select Source Files dialog box appears. Use the File Name box and the Add, Add All, and Delete commands to create a list of project files in the Files in Project box.
\par 5.\tab When the list of project files is complete, choose OK. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab ClassWizard generates a new .CLW file.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} updating existing code for use with ClassWizard}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3CPL78D}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa195\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;updating code;updating existing code for use with ClassWizard;using ClassWizard}
\b Updating Existing Code for Use with ClassWizard
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 This section provides the basics for adding ClassWizard comments to existing code so that the code can be used with ClassWizard. Microsoft Foundation Class Library version 1 code is an example of code containing classes that need to be updated in this way. To update a class for use with ClassWizard, it must already have a message map defined.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 For more detailed information on updating existing code, see \uldb Technical Note 19.\plain\fs20 {\v TN019@mfcnotes.hlp} 
\par To use existing code with ClassWizard, place the special\f2 -\f4 format comments ClassWizard uses to locate message\f2 -\f4 map entries in both your header and implementation files.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 In your header file, ClassWizard uses comments of the following form, placed before and after message\f2 -\f4 handler declarations:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG(\i classname\plain\f8\fs18 )
\par      //message\f2\fs20 -\f8\fs18 handler declarations here
\par //\'7d\'7dAFX_MSG
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 The \i classname\plain\fs20  is the name of the class to which the message handlers belong. For example:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 \tab //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG(CPasswordDlg)
\par \tab afx_msg void OnChangePassword();
\par \tab //\'7d\'7dAFX_MSG
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 In your implementation file, ClassWizard uses comments of the following form, placed before and after the message\f2 -\f4 map entries:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 \tab //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG_MAP(\i classname\plain\f8\fs18 )
\par           // message map entries here
\par \tab //\'7d\'7dAFX_MSG_MAP
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 For example:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 BEGIN_MESSAGE_MAP(CPasswordDlg, CDialog)
\par \b \tab \plain\f8\fs18 //\{\-\{\-AFX_MSG_MAP(CPasswordDlg)\b 
\par \plain\f8\fs18 \tab ON_EN_CHANGE(IDC_PASSWORD, OnChangePassword)
\par \b \tab \plain\f8\fs18 //\'7d\'7dAFX_MSG_MAP
\par END_MESSAGE_MAP()
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 You can also upgrade existing dialog classes for use with ClassWizard dialog data exchange and validation, although you may not need to do this if your existing dialog\f2 -\f4 box code already handles data exchange and validation to your satisfaction.
\par For an example of the AFX_DATA, AFX_DATA_INIT, and AFX_DATA_MAP comments used by ClassWizard to maintain information for data exchange and validation, see the PENDLG.CPP (and PENDLG.H) module of the SCRIBBLE example program discussed in the \i Class Library User's Guide\plain\fs20 .
\par Once you have placed the necessary ClassWizard comments in your source files, load the project's resource script file into App Studio, open ClassWizard, and build the ClassWizard database (.CLW) file. For more information, see \uldb Rebuilding the ClassWizard File.\plain\fs20 {\v B91W84}
\par To learn how resource script files change when you upgrade from the previous version of the Microsoft Foundation Class Library, see \uldb Updating an Existing Resource File.\plain\fs20 {\v F88N4H}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Using ClassWizard Tabs}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 92UAO5}
{\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;dialog;tabs;wizards}
\b Using ClassWizard Tabs
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 ClassWizard now uses a tab dialog layout similar to those in other Microsoft applications. To select a tab, choose its tab name near the top of the ClassWizard window. The selected tab moves to the front of the window.
\par \trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx2344\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b Tab\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Description\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx2344\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 Message Maps\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use this tab to browse the messages that a class can handle or to create, edit, or delete member functions mapped to messages. Use the Edit Code button to jump to the code of a message-handler function in the Visual C++ editor.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx2344\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Member Variables\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use this tab to bind member variables to dialog, form view, or record view controls for dialog data exchange (DDX). You can also bind recordset member variables both to record view controls and to the columns of a table on your data source.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx2344\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 OLE Automation\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Use this tab to create and expand the OLE Automation capabilities of your application. \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx2344\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Class Info\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Use this tab to browse and set general class options. You can set a classs message filter to determine what messages it receives. You can also view or set a foreign object associated with your dialog, form view, or record view class.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tip
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 All tabs in ClassWizard provide the following common options, as shown in the following table.
\par \trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx1534\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \b Button\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 Description\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx1534\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa155\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs20 OK \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 You can move from tab to tab, setting options and browsing class information, until you close ClassWizard by choosing the OK button.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx1534\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Cancel \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 You can cancel all changes on all tabs by choosing the Cancel button.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx1534\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Help \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 You can view this help information by choosing the Help button.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trqc\trgaph109\trleft139 \cellx1534\cellx5764\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Add Class \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 You can add a new class to your project by choosing the Add Class button.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tip
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 To choose a tab from the keyboard, use the \fs17 TAB\fs20  key to move the focus to the tab currently in front. Then use the \fs17 RIGHT\fs20  and \fs17 LEFT ARROW\fs20  keys to move the focus to other tabs.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating a Recordset Class and Binding Its Fields to Table Columns}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1.NCIGH}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} binding;ClassWizard;recordset;table;wizards}
\b Creating a Recordset Class and Binding Its Fields to Table Columns
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use ClassWizards Add Class dialog box to add a CRecordset-derived class to your project. Then use the Member Variables tab to adjust the recordset classs bindings to table columns. By default, ClassWizard binds all columns in the table you choose. You can unbind any columns you dont want in the recordset. Later, you can rebind individual unbound columns or all unbound columns.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To create a recordset class:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab From any tab in ClassWizard, choose the Add Class button.
\par \tab The Add Class dialog box opens.
\par 2.\tab Specify the class name, select CRecordset as the base class, and specify the files for the class, and choose the Create Class button.
\par \tab The SQL Data Sources dialog box opens.
\par 3.\tab Select a data source.
\par \tab The Tables dialog box opens.
\par 4.\tab Select a table.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab You are returned to the Member Variables tab. All columns are bound to recordset member variables with default names based on the column names.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} \cf1 To unbind a column you dont want in your recordset class:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 1.\tab On the Member Variables tab, select a column in the Columns box.
\par 2.\tab Choose Delete Variable.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab The variable name and type name disappear, signifying that the variable no longer exists.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf1 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To rebind an unbound column:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 1.\tab On the Member Variables tab, select a column in the Columns box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose Add Variable and provide a name a data type, then choose OK.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf1 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To bind all unbound columns:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 1.\tab On the Member Variables tab, select a column in the Columns box.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Choose Bind All.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Creating a Record View Class}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} BC3OG.}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa235\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ClassWizard;record view;wizards}
\b Creating a Record View Class
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can use ClassWizard to add a \b CRecordView\plain\fs20 -derived class to your project. Perhaps when you created your project with AppWizard you didnt choose one of the database options that automatically uses a record view as the applications main view. Or perhaps you want to add a second record view.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf1 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To create a record view class with ClassWizard:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 1.\tab Optionally, create the \b CRecordset\plain\fs20 -derived class that will be associated with your record view.
\par \tab See \uldb To create a recordset class\plain\fs20 {\v 1.NCIGH}.
\par 2.\tab Use the App Studio dialog editor to create a dialog template resource for the class.
\par \tab See the encyclopedia article ClassWizard: Creating a Database Form for additional details about setting the dialog template resources styles.
\par 3.\tab With the dialog template resource focused, open ClassWizard.
\par \tab The Add Class dialog box opens.
\par 4.\tab Specify the class name, select \b CRecordView\plain\fs20  as its base class, specify files for the class, and choose Create Class.
\par \tab The Select a Recordset dialog box opens.
\par 5.\tab Select a recordset class.
\par \tab From the Class box, you can select the class you created earlier, or select a different recordset class.
\par \tab Or 
\par \tab Choose New to create a new recordset class. From this point, follow the procedure outlined in \uldb To create a recordset class\plain\fs20 {\v 1.NCIGH}.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab Choose OK to close the Select a Recordset dialog box.
\par \tab Regardless of how you selected your recordset class, you are returned to the ClassWizard tab from which you chose Add Class.
\par 7.\tab Bind the dialog template controls for the record view to recordset member variables.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \tab See the following procedure.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Once you create the record view class and its associated recordset class, you must map the record views controls to database columns via the recordsets member variables. For additional information, see the encyclopedia articles ClassWizard: Foreign Objects and ClassWizard: Mapping Form Controls to Recordset Fields.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \cf1 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To bind record view controls to recordset fields
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 1.\tab On the Member Variables tab, select the record view class in the Class Name box.
\par 2.\tab In the Control IDs box, select a control ID.
\par 3.\tab Choose Add Variable to open the Add Member Variable dialog box.
\par 4.\tab To specify a variable name in the recordset rather than in the record view, select a name in the Variable Name drop-down list.
\par \tab Names in the list are of the form:
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li535 \f8\fs18 m_pSet->m_VariableName
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \f4\fs20 \tab where \f8\fs18 m_pSet\f4\fs20  is the record view classs pointer to its associated recordset object and \f8\fs18 m_VariableName\f4\fs20  is the name of a recordset member variable.
\par 5.\tab Specify the variables type.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 6.\tab Repeat steps 2 through 5 for each control you want to bind.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b\fs18 Shortcut  \plain\fs20 With your dialog template resource focused in the dialog editor, hold down \fs17 CTRL\fs20  and double-click a control in the dialog template. This opens ClassWizards Add Member Variable dialog box. Specify the name and type of the new member variable. ClassWizard binds the member variable to the control you \fs17 CTRL\fs20 +Double-clicked and returns you to the dialog editor.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Selecting Options for Database Support}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} EnableButton("btn_index");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_index","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp>index2', `index_classwiz')");EnableButton("btn_up");ChangeButtonBinding("btn_up","JumpId(`apstudio.hlp', `topic_classwiz')")}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa235\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 76RVVM}
{\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} AppWizard;database;options;wizards}
\b Selecting Options for Database Support
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Using AppWizard you are able to implement various levels of database support for your application. 
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \{bmc bm5.mrb\} To select options for database support:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab In the MFC AppWizard dialog box, choose Database Options.
\par \tab The Database Options dialog box appears.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 2.\tab Select the the level of database support from among the available options.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm302.bmp\}\tab Use the second option, Include Header Files, when you want database support but dont need a form-based application that uses a CRecordView-derived view class.
\par \{bmc bm303.bmp\}\tab The third and fourth options ("Database Support, No File Support" and "Database and File Support") create an application whose view is a CRecordView-derived class associated with a CRecordset-derived class. These options provide for form-based applications that let the user view database records on a form. 
\par \{bmc bm304.bmp\}\tab Use Database Support, No File Support when your application wont need to serialize the contents of its documents. Database applications typically view and update data one record at a time rather than reading and writing a whole file.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm305.bmp\}\tab Use Database and File Support when you want serialization for some special purpose, such as updating a user profile file.
\par \{bmc bm306.bmp\}\tab If you select the third or fourth option, the Data Source button appears. Choose Data Source to select a data source to connect to and to select a table on that data source.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} INDEX}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \f5 \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Comprehensive Index for App Studio 
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 App Studio Basics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  APSTUDIO.INI\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %31Z1J49>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics files, saving as separate files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_TKOUR>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Initialization file (App Studio)\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %31Z1J49>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, controlling\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %TTIYX.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, displaying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ONTK5P>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, moving between\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ONTK5P>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, using\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PYUZJ8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource browser\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J3XZ0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, converting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %46ESJJ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2N96AWC>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, opening\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7CEY_MB>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, updating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F88N4H>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, browsing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J3XZ0>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3QPW_PO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\fi245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12E7FM_>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, transferring between files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_TKOUR>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources and files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %OC22GM>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, header files, changing name of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %32INRD6>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, read-only and calculated\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XRHZ6S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Undo and redo\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1PWC_T_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-interface objects, manipulating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3NXJPZJ>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Dialog Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Combo box, size of drop-down area\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J8QES7>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Control palette, adding VBX controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Control palette, deleting VBX controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Control palette, showing or hiding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6KH_X_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, adding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %P_KPL1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, aligning\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %ZRYRW7>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, arranging\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %VDIPRB>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, centering\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1IBCZQP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1IBCZQP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6642U.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, mapping to class members\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KBDPKG>main}\uldb 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, placing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %BH4SPK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, resizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %9O3ZSJ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, sizing individual\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J8QES7>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, spacing evenly\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2AD3L1P>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog box keyboard access, defining\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1SXJ0KQ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog box template, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1RPIUS3>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog boxes, testing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2FQCIWC>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog Box Units\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %D3VL_8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog editor window, editing in\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %Z4T_MK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dominant control, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4IHM_0.>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dominant control, defined\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M0KNL1>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Form view, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %EXB0AT>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Layout grid, changing size of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1.FDLEO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Mnemonic keys, defining\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1SXJ0KQ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Pushbuttons, arranging\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting more than one control\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting, removing, or adding to selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Snap to Grid, turning on and off\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1.FDLEO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tab order, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14GB.R0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Testing dialog boxes\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2FQCIWC>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-defined control properties\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GW_HXO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-defined controls, placing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GW_HXO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  VBX control properties, setting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %39G3_NJ>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  VBX controls, adding to control palette\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  VBX controls, deleting from control palette\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Menu Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZC4U2O>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, associating with accelerator key\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1VISUVV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_C3ZWZ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21HS2K3>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu resources, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1JGG6YV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1JGG6YV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu resources, viewing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7BABUF>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_C3ZWZ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21HS2K3>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Graphics Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Background color transparency\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6XW8BM>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5.Z..DC>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, flipping a selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %45UW.OO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, resizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3RZ3TD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, selecting an area in\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4RRZ_S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, selecting entire\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4RRZ_S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Clipboard, using to edit graphics\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0WFDCV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color palette, changing colors on\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5B5.0OL>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color palette, creating custom colors\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5B5.0OL>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color palette, managing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %9XGNTV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color pickup tool\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %JJB0QS>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, changing number of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %OXXMS4>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, filling bounded areas with\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PF00M0>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, inverting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %COU4NW>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, picking up\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %JJB0QS>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21Y83CL>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, working with\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %321RCSP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Copying the selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Cursors, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_NF.ZF>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Cursors, setting hotspot in\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1M0W9TX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, canceling\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, changing size of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, drawing in background color with\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom color palettes, saving and loading\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %DC.J01>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Device descriptions, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1RJPHLP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Device image, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Device image, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing and painting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %42S7BR8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing closed figures\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KZ4PCY>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing lines\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KZ4PCY>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing with the selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing tools, selecting and using\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.5WEQV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing tools, sizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.5WEQV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Fill tool\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PF00M0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12_31P8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %91CRU0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, creating for stand-alone editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %91CRU0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.AA1.F>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, opening existing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.AA1.F>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics editor workspace\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %B79L7M>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics palette, general information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12_31P8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics palette, showing and hiding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %TE.HSO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_NF.ZF>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons and cursors, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons and cursors, creating inverse regions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons and cursors, creating transparent regions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Image editor panes, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0BGS04>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Image editor panes, sizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0BGS04>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Inverse color, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Magnification factor, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0A23N>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Magnification factor, toggling\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7RY7_Q>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Moving the selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Pixel grids, displaying and hiding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2_5GZ.W>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, graphical resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LB2PUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Screen color, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tile grid, setting dimensions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tile grid, toggling display\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Toolbar bitmaps, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Toolbar button, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Zooming in and out\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7RY7_Q>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Accelerator Table Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Accelerator key, associating with menu item\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1VISUVV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Accelerator table, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %16D0MAO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Accelerator table, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %16D0MAO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J9MCG2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2.QNLGG>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, Key box, legal entries\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZSLZ.B>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, adding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Values, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2.QNLGG>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b String Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %22Q4F4C>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1BMRFVO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  String tables, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8LHMB1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  String tables, finding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %N7FO2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  String tables, opening\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8LHMB1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, adding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_FZ.JP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, changing identifier\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1BMRFVO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_FZ.JP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, formatting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1BMRFVO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_FZ.JP>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Binary Editor
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom resource, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1K03ZN5>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Data resource, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1K03ZN5>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3CIG03Y>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4RU3A9>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource, opening for binary editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %26CX_X8>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Symbol Browser
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource editor, opening for a symbol\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CE4YOB>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol browser dialog box, accessing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %11YA0AY>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol name, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PX5EW3>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol value, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1NCM9AP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, changing unassigned\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %13NAIXO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3XX9LN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, name restrictions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %C4BSPM>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, value restrictions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %FTFZG>main}
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b ClassWizard
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Class name, changing or moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6Q6H22>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Classes, copying from another project\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2AMH0L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Classes, creating derived\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IBZ65Z>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Classes, importing existing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2AMH0L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom data exchange and validation\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %718Q4U>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Database files, rebuilding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %B91W84>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Data members, defining for DDE\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.463H2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  DDX Control variables\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %AT361D>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  DDX Value variables\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1K9PLLA>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  DDX variables, using\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12FE_RJ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog boxes, general information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J2L4Q_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog data exchange\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.463H2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog data validation\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.463HC>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Edit Code command\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %19MQ5GR>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1JGHI04>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Message handlers, defining\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %87Y8PG>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Message-handling class, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KKN8_Z>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Message-handling functions, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1HW06H5>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  New class, adding to a project\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2.1SEX1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Recordset class, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1.NCIGH>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Record view class, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %BC3OG.>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tabs, using Classwizard\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %92UAO5>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Updating, ClassWizard code\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CS8WRG>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Updating, existing code for ClassWizard\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3CPL78D>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-interface objects\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14AMK9O>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 21EK5_}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for Accelerator Table Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Accelerator key, associating with menu item\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1VISUVV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Accelerator table, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %16D0MAO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Accelerator table, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %16D0MAO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J9MCG2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2.QNLGG>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, Key box, legal entries\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZSLZ.B>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, adding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Table entries, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GNA6.2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Values, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2.QNLGG>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 22KV55}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for Binary Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom resource, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1K03ZN5>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Data resource, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1K03ZN5>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3CIG03Y>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4RU3A9>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource, opening for binary editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %26CX_X8>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} BBJ7XJ}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for ClassWizard Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Class name, changing or moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6Q6H22>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Classes, copying from another project\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2AMH0L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Classes, creating derived\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IBZ65Z>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Classes, importing existing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2AMH0L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom data exchange and validation\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %718Q4U>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Database files, rebuilding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %B91W84>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Data members, defining for DDE\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.463H2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  DDX Control variables\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %AT361D>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  DDX Value variables\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1K9PLLA>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  DDX variables, using\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12FE_RJ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog boxes, general information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J2L4Q_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog data exchange\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.463H2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog data validation\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.463HC>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Edit Code command\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %19MQ5GR>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1JGHI04>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Message handlers, defining\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %87Y8PG>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Message-handling class, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KKN8_Z>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Message-handling functions, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1HW06H5>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  New class, adding to a project\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2.1SEX1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Updating, ClassWizard code\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CS8WRG>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Updating, existing code for ClassWizard\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3CPL78D>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-interface objects\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14AMK9O>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} P91_2O}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for Dialog Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Combo box, size of drop-down area\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J8QES7>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Control palette, adding VBX controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Control palette, deleting VBX controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Control palette, showing or hiding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6KH_X_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, adding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %P_KPL1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, aligning\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %ZRYRW7>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, arranging\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %VDIPRB>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, centering\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1IBCZQP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1IBCZQP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6642U.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, placing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F_VC4S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, resizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %9O3ZSJ>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, sizing individual\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J8QES7>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Controls, spacing evenly\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom controls\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2AD3L1P>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog box keyboard access, defining\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1SXJ0KQ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog box template, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1RPIUS3>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog boxes, testing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2FQCIWC>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog Box Units\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %D3VL_8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dialog editor window, editing in\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %Z4T_MK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dominant control, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4IHM_0.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Dominant control, defined\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M0KNL1>main}\uldb 
\par \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Form view, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %EXB0AT>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Layout grid, changing size of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1.FDLEO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Mnemonic keys, defining\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1SXJ0KQ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Pushbuttons, arranging\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %81R8L_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting more than one control\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Selecting, removing, or adding to selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J4CAHD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Snap to Grid, turning on and off\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1.FDLEO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tab order, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14GB.R0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Testing dialog boxes\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2FQCIWC>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-defined control properties\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GW_HXO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-defined controls, placing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GW_HXO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  VBX control properties, setting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %39G3_NJ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  VBX controls, adding to control palette\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  VBX controls, deleting from control palette\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MOSMR2>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3RVME5}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for Graphics Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Background color transparency\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6XW8BM>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5.Z..DC>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, flipping a selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %45UW.OO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, resizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3RZ3TD>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, selecting an area in\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4RRZ_S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Bitmaps, selecting entire\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4RRZ_S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Clipboard, using to edit graphics\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0WFDCV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color palette, changing colors on\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5B5.0OL>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color palette, creating custom colors\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5B5.0OL>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color palette, managing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %9XGNTV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Color pickup tool\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %JJB0QS>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, changing number of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %OXXMS4>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, filling bounded areas with\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PF00M0>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, inverting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %COU4NW>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, picking up\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %JJB0QS>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21Y83CL>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Colors, working with\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %321RCSP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Copying the selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Cursors, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_NF.ZF>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Cursors, setting hotspot in\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1M0W9TX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, canceling\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, changing size of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom brushes, drawing in background color with\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MH494.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Custom color palettes, saving and loading\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %DC.J01>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Device descriptions, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1RJPHLP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Device image, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Device image, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing and painting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %42S7BR8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing closed figures\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KZ4PCY>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing lines\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %KZ4PCY>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing with the selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing tools, selecting and using\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.5WEQV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Drawing tools, sizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.5WEQV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Fill tool\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PF00M0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12_31P8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %91CRU0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, creating for stand-alone editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %91CRU0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.AA1.F>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphical resources, opening existing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.AA1.F>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics editor workspace\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %B79L7M>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics palette, general information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12_31P8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics palette, showing and hiding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %TE.HSO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_NF.ZF>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons and cursors, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %79KI_AO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons and cursors, creating inverse regions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Icons and cursors, creating transparent regions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Image editor panes, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0BGS04>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Image editor panes, sizing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0BGS04>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Inverse color, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Magnification factor, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0A23N>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Magnification factor, toggling\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7RY7_Q>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Moving the selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MR42KO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Pixel grids, displaying and hiding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2_5GZ.W>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, graphical resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LB2PUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Screen color, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %14K0ODN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tile grid, setting dimensions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Tile grid, toggling display\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Toolbar bitmaps, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Toolbar button, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_54OGX>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Zooming in and out\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7RY7_Q>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2_GVE6D}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for Menu Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZC4U2O>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, associating with accelerator key\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1VISUVV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_C3ZWZ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu items, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21HS2K3>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu resources, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1JGG6YV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1JGG6YV>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menu resources, viewing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7BABUF>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, copying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_C3ZWZ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IX6WUK>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Menus, selecting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21HS2K3>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} S70DN}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for App Studio Basics Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  APSTUDIO.INI\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %31Z1J49>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Graphics files, saving as separate files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_TKOUR>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Initialization file (App Studio)\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %31Z1J49>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, controlling\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %TTIYX.>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, displaying\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ONTK5P>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, moving between\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ONTK5P>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties window, using\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PYUZJ8>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource browser\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J3XZ0>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, converting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %46ESJJ>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2N96AWC>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, opening\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7CEY_MB>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource files, updating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F88N4H>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, browsing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %J3XZ0>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3QPW_PO>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\fi245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12E7FM_>main}
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources, transferring between files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_TKOUR>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resources and files\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %OC22GM>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, header files, changing name of\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %32INRD6>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, read-only and calculated\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XRHZ6S>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Undo and redo\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1PWC_T_>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  User-interface objects, manipulating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3NXJPZJ>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1PC0LRC}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for String Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  General information\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %22Q4F4C>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Properties, editing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1BMRFVO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  String tables, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8LHMB1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  String tables, finding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %N7FO2>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  String tables, opening\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8LHMB1>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, adding\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_FZ.JP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, changing identifier\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1BMRFVO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, deleting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_FZ.JP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, formatting\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1BMRFVO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Strings, moving\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1_FZ.JP>main}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 14I_32O}
\pard\keepn\sb75\sa75\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("index2")}\plain\f5\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sb115\sa195\sl-215\li245 \b Index for Symbol Editor Topics
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Resource editor, opening for a symbol\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CE4YOB>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol browser dialog box, accessing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %11YA0AY>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol name, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %PX5EW3>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbol value, changing\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1NCM9AP>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, changing unassigned\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %13NAIXO>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, creating\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3XX9LN>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, name restrictions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %C4BSPM>main}
\par \uldb \{bmc bm24.mrb\}  Symbols, value restrictions\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %FTFZG>main}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} clicks in client area}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1QC.U46}
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Please click the Help button for help on this property page.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} multiple resources or no resource chosen}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} A0UMNV}
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 You can open a property page only when one resource has been chosen. This property page appears when either multiple resources have been chosen in the resource browser or when no resources appear there.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Resource View property pages}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 17LJSIE}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;Resource View property pages}
\b Resource View Property Pages
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Resource Properties
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The following properties are available in the Properties window when a resource is selected in the resource browser window but the editing window for that resource is not open, or when the editing window is open but minimized:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %28OOMKP}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Discardable\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XY91U7}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Preload\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LZYR52}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Pure\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2GN4PWW}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Moveable\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LITFU2}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa115\sl-215\li245 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\tx1915 Bitmaps, icons, and cursors also have the following fields in the Resource property page:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Filename\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %G67NH0}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Preview\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %21BPK_0}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b\fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} ID (Resource View)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 28OOMKP}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ID property}
\fs20 ID (Resource View) 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The resource's identifier. Usually the resource ID is a symbol supplied by App Studio and defined in the .H file that App Studio creates as part of your project. (For string tables, the ID is always \b STRINGTABLE\plain\f5\fs20  and cannot be modified.)
\par Type: Symbol, Integer, or Quoted String. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Preload}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LZYR52}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Preload property}
\b Preload 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Determines if the resource is loaded when the application starts up (True) or is not loaded until it is called (False). Equivalent to the \b PRELOAD\plain\f5\fs20  and \b LOADONCALL\plain\f5\fs20  resource compiler statements.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Moveable}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LITFU2}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Moveable property}
\b Moveable 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Permits the resource to be moved to compact memory if necessary (True) or remains at a fixed memory location. Equivalent to the \b MOVEABLE\plain\f5\fs20  and \b FIXED\plain\f5\fs20  resource compiler statements.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Discardable}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XY91U7}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Discardable property}
\b Discardable 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Allows the resource to be purged from memory if no longer needed. When the resource is needed again, it is loaded from disk.
\par Type: Bool. 
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Pure}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2GN4PWW}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Pure property}
\b Pure 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Prevents the resource from being dynamically modified by the application at run time if set to True. If Pure is False, your application cannot have more than one instance running at a time. Has no effect for standard resource types in Microsoft Foundation Class Library applications. Made available for user-resource types and for backward compatibility with real-mode applications.
\par Type: Bool. 
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Preview}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 21BPK_0}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Preview property}
\b Filename (Resource View)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The name of the file containing the bitmap, icon, or cursor resource
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Filename (Resource View)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} G67NH0}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Filename property}
\b Preview 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 A box showing what the bitmap, icon, or cursor looks like. Useful for browsing through graphics without opening them.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Dialog Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} GQLO6F}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Dialog Properties;property pages}
\b Dialog Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_COHGJ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Menu\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XI9XC6}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GV1WM0}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    X Pos\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XIE8D4}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Font Name\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2ASGWMC}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Y Pos\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XIF8D4}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Font Size\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12A55VN}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Registered Class\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2G9_Y2}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Font\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %XI37C5}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 
\par \trowd\trleft714 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\} Dialog Properties: Styles\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %9EYBDT}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} ID (Resource)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _COHGJ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ID property}
\b\fs20 ID (Resource)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The resource's identifier. Usually the resource ID is a symbol supplied by App Studio and defined in the .H file that App Studio creates as part of your project.
\par Type: Symbol, Integer, or Quoted String.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Caption (Dialog Properties: General)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} GV1WM0}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Caption property}
\b Caption (Dialog Properties: General) 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The text that appears as part of the dialog box to label it.
\par Default: A name based on the type of resource (in this case, "Dialog") plus a number based on the resource identifier assigned by App Studio.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font Name}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2ASGWMC}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Font Name property}
\b Font Name 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The typeface of the font that will be used in all the controls in the dialog box. The bold version of the typeface is always used. Change this value by choosing the Font command in the lower-left corner of the property page.
\par Default: MS Sans Serif.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font Size}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12A55VN}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Font Size property}
\b Font Size 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The point size of the font that will be used in all the controls in the dialog box.
\par Default: 8 points. Change this value by choosing the Font command in the lower-left corner of the property page.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XI37C5}
{\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Font property}
\b Font 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Choose the Font command to change the typeface or size of the dialog-box font.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XI9XC6}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Menu property}
\b Menu 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Contains the resource identifier of the menu used in the dialog box, if any.
\par Type: Resource identifier.
\par Default: None.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} X Pos}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XIE8D4}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} X Pos property}
\b X Pos 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The x coordinate, in dialog-box units (DLUs), of the upper-left corner of the dialog box. 
\par Type: Integer.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Y Pos}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XIF8D4}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Y Pos property}
\b Y Pos 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The y coordinate, in dialog-box units (DLUs), of the upper-left corner of the dialog box.
\par Type: Integer.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Registered Class}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2G9_Y2}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Registered Class property}
\b Registered Class 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Identifier of a registered dialog class (a Windows operating system window class, not to be confused with a C++ class). Provided to support C programming. If you are using a resource file with Microsoft Foundation Class Library support, this option is disabled.
\par Type: Integer or String. String must be in double quotes.
\par Default: None.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Dialog Properties: Styles}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 9EYBDT}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Dialog Properties;property pages}
\b Dialog Properties: Styles
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Style Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Style\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %K.2831}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Clip Siblings\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5OW2CGZ}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Border\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3QIG0H6}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Clip Children\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %AZBU_8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Minimize Box\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %FUPPX}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    System Modal\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %19DRMY.}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Maximize Box\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %22RBYUG}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Absolute Align\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_RLYIQ}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Titlebar\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1QHXZ_0}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    NoIdleMsg\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7LHXL5}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    System Menu\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1VMTWY}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    LocalEdit\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2049GW}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Horiz. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4JCQ_3N}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %11XW_V6}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Vert. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %16WN0RZ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 
\par \trowd\trleft734 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  Dialog Properties: General\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %GQLO6F}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Style (Dialog Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} K.2831}
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Style property}
Style (Dialog Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 One of the following:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1765\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Overlapped\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creates an overlapped window. An overlappped window is always a top-level window and should have a caption and a border.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1765\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Popup (Default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creates a pop-up window.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1765\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Child\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Creates a child window. \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Border (Dialog Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3QIG0H6}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Border property}
Border (Dialog Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 One of the following:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2455\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 None\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 No border. A title bar is not available.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2455\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Thin\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 A thin border.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2455\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Resizing\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creates a thick border that can be used to resize the dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2455\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Dialog Frame (Default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 A dialog-box border. \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Minimize Box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FUPPX}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Minimize Box property}
Minimize Box 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a minimize box for the dialog box. Disabled if there is no title bar.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Maximize Box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 22RBYUG}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Maximize Box property}
\b Maximize Box 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a maximize box for the dialog box. Disabled if there is no title bar. 
\par Type: Bool. 
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Titlebar}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1QHXZ_0}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Titlebar property}
\b Titlebar 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a title bar for the dialog box. Disabled if the dialog box has no border.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} System Menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1VMTWY}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} System Menu property}
\b System Menu 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a system menu for the dialog box. Disabled if there is no title bar.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Horiz. Scroll (Dialog Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4JCQ_3N}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Horiz. Scroll property}
\b Horiz. Scroll (Dialog Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a horizontal scroll bar for the dialog box.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Vert. Scroll (Dialog Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 16WN0RZ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Vert. Scroll property}
\b Vert. Scroll (Dialog Properties: Styles) 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a vertical scroll bar for a dialog box. 
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Clip Siblings}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5OW2CGZ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Clip Siblings property}
\b Clip Siblings 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Clips child windows relative to each other; that is, when a particular child window is repainted, this style clips all other top-level child windows out of the region of the child window to be updated. If Clip Siblings is False and child windows overlap, it is possible, when drawing in the client area of a child window, to draw in the client area of a neighboring child window. For use with child windows only.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Clip Children}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} AZBU_8}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Clip Children property}
\b Clip Children 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Excludes the area occupied by child windows when drawing within the parent window. Used when creating the parent window. Do not use this style if your dialog box contains a group box.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} System Modal}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 19DRMY.}
{\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} System Modal property}
\b System Modal 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a system-modal dialog box. A system-modal dialog box prohibits switching to another window or program while the dialog box is active.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Absolute Align}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _RLYIQ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Absolute Align property}
\b Absolute Align 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Determines whether the dialog box is aligned relative to the screen or relative to its parent window. If True, the dialog box is displayed at coordinates relative to the upper-left corner of the screen.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} NoIdleMsg}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7LHXL5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} NoIdleMsg property}
\b NoIdleMsg 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Suppresses the \b WM_ENTERIDLE\plain\f5\fs20  message ordinarily sent to the owner of a dialog box when no more messages are waiting in its message queue. 
\par Type: Bool
\par Default: False
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} LocalEdit}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2049GW}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} LocalEdit property}
\b LocalEdit 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that edit-box controls in the dialog box will use memory in the application's data segment. Normally, all edit-box controls in dialog boxes use memory outside the application's data segment.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Visible (Dialog Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11XW_V6}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Visible property}
\b Visible 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that the dialog box is visible when first displayed. Set this property to False for form views and dialog-bar template resources.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Pushbutton Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4V22_P6}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;Pushbutton Properties}
\b Pushbutton Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Pushbuttons have the following standard properties on the General property page.
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 In addition to the standard properties listed above, pushbuttons have the following additional general properties:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Default Button\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %QI2E.T}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Owner Draw\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1XWXVWH}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} ID (Resource Object)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1ZVR0LF}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} ID property}
ID (Resource Object)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The resource's identifier. Usually the resource ID is a symbol supplied by App Studio and defined in the .H file that App Studio creates as part of your project.
\par Type: Symbol or Integer
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Caption}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} F49AYI}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Caption property}
\b Caption
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The text that appears as part of the control to label it. To make one of the letters in the caption of a control the mnemonic key, precede it with an ampersand (&). 
\par Default: A name based on the type of control (for example, "Check") plus a number based on the resource identifier assigned by AppStudio.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Visible (Pushbutton Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} M56GLY}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Visible property}
\b Visible (Pushbutton Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Determines whether the control is visible when the application is first run.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Disabled}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CMB19L}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Disabled property}
\b Disabled
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Determines if the resource is displayed as disabled when the dialog box is created.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Group}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IZ6_M8}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Group property}
\b Group
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies the first control of a group of controls in which the user can move from one control to the next by using the arrow keys. All controls in the tab order after the first control with the Group property set to False belong to the same group. The next control in the tab order with Group set to True ends the first group of controls and starts the next group.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx1035\cellx3435\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Default:\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 True for Text controls.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx1035\cellx3435\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 False for all other controls.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Tabstop}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 18IEWWN}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Tabstop property}
\b Tabstop
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that the user can move to this control with the \fs17 TAB\fs20  key.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx1035\cellx3495\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Default: \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 True for Check Box, Combo Box, Edit Box, List Box, and Pushbutton controls.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx1035\cellx3495\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 False for Group Box, Picture, Radio Button, Scroll Bar, and Text controls.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Default Button}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} QI2E.T}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Default Button property}
Default Button
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 If True, the control is the default button in the dialog box. The default button is selected (drawn with a heavy black border) when the dialog box first appears and is executed if the user presses \scaps enter\plain\f5\fs20  without choosing another command in the dialog box. Windows allows only one default button in a dialog box.
\par Type: Bool.\fs17 
\par \fs20 Default: False. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Owner Draw (Pushbutton Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1XWXVWH}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Owner Draw property}
\b Owner Draw (Pushbutton Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates an owner-draw button. Use an owner-draw button when you need to customize the appearance of a control by providing your own \b OnDrawItem\plain\f5\fs20  message handler in the owner-window procedure (usually a dialog-box procedure or class derived from the Microsoft Foundation classes (\b CDialog\plain\f5\fs20  or \b CFormView\plain\f5\fs20 ). You can also derive your own class from \b CButton\plain\f5\fs20  and override \b CButton::DrawItem\plain\f5\fs20 . See \b CWnd::OnDrawItem\plain\f5\fs20  and \b CButton::OnDraw\plain\f5\fs20  in the \i Class Library Reference\plain\f5\fs20  for more information.
\par This property must be set to define a bitmap button in a dialog box using the \b CBitmapButton\plain\f5\fs20  class.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.\b 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Radio Button Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ARDOND}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;Radio Button Properties}
Radio Button Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Auto\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %AUHUDQ}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Left Text\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8E5NLU}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Auto (Radio Button Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} AUHUDQ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Auto property}
Auto (Radio Button Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 When the user selects a radio button with this property, the radio button is automatically selected, and any other radio buttons in the same group are cleared (deselected). You must set this property to True if you are using a group of check boxes with Dialog Data Exchange.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Left Text (Radio Button Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8E5NLU}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Left Text property}
\b Left Text (Radio Button Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Places the radio button's caption text on the left rather than on the right.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Check Box Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IK43CE}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Check Box Properties;property pages}
\b Check Box Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Auto\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %YR8R5K}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Left Text\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %DRO73W}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tri-State\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %7.2L3T}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Tri-State}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7.2L3T}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Tri-State property}
Tri-State
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a three-state check box. A three-state check box can be grayed as well as checked or not checked. A grayed check box indicates that the state represented by the control is undetermined.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Auto (Check Box Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} YR8R5K}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Auto property}
\b Auto (Check Box Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a check box that, when selected, automatically toggles between checked and unchecked states. You must set this property to True if you are using a group of check boxes with Dialog Data Exchange.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 . 
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Left Text (Check Box Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DRO73W}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Left Text property}
\b Left Text (Check Box Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Positions the check box's caption text to the left instead of to the right.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Edit Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} NINVF5}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Edit Properties;property pages}
\b Edit Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 
\par \trowd\trleft744 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \uldb \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  Edit Properties: Styles\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %488XCZK}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Edit Properties: Style}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 488XCZK}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Edit Properties;property pages}
\b Edit Properties: Styles
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Style Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Align Text\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CWUG1D}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    No Hide Sel\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5AFU_Y1}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Multiline\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %56F3__N}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    OEM Convert\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MG16JW}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Horiz. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IRXHD.}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Want Return\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1B5SGVK}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Auto HScroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %VJ0KBN}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Border\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1N4QT3N}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Vert. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %19HGCCR}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Uppercase\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MTWZAO}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Auto VScroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZEXT4K}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Lowercase\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %26GWB35}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Password\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %11_DX0_}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Read Only\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1IMQ.W2}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 
\par \trowd\trleft734 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  Edit Box Properties: General\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %NINVF5}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Want Return}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1B5SGVK}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Want Return property}
Want Return
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that a carriage return be inserted when the user presses the \fs17 ENTER\fs20  key while entering text into a multiline edit-box control in a dialog box. If this style is not specified, pressing the \fs17 ENTER\fs20  key has the same effect as pressing the dialog box's default pushbutton. This style has no effect on a single-line edit-box control. 
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Read Only}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1IMQ.W2}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Read Only Property}
\b Read Only
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Prevents the user from typing or editing text in the edit box. 
\par Type: Bool.\fs17  
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Align Text}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CWUG1D}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Align Text property}
\b Align Text
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Text aligns left, centered, or right. In a single-line edit box, text is always aligned left. 
\par Default: Left.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Horiz. Scroll (Edit Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IRXHD.}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Horiz. Scroll property}
\b Horiz. Scroll (Edit Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Provides a horizontal scroll bar for a multiline control.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Auto HScroll}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} VJ0KBN}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Auto HScroll property}
\b Auto HScroll
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Automatically scrolls text to the right when the user types a character at the end of the line. 
\par Type: Bool.\fs17 
\par \fs20 Default: True for edit controls; False for combo boxes.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Vert. Scroll (Edit and Combo Box Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 19HGCCR}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Vert. Scroll property}
\b Vert. Scroll (Edit Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Provides a vertical scroll bar for a multiline edit-box control.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Auto VScroll}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1ZEXT4K}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Auto VScroll property}
\b Auto VScroll
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 In a multiline control, automatically scrolls text up one line when the user presses \fs17 ENTER\fs20  on the last line.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Password}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11_DX0_}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Password property}
\b Password
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Displays all characters as an asterisk (*) as they are typed into the edit-box control. Not available in multiline controls.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.  
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} No Hide Sel}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5AFU_Y1}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} No Hide Sel property}
\b No Hide Sel
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Changes the way text is displayed when an edit box loses and regains focus. Normally, existing text in an edit box is hidden when the control loses focus and is displayed as inverted text when the control regains focus. If NoHideSel is set to True, selected text in a edit box is displayed as selected at all times. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} OEM Convert}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MG16JW}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} OEM Convert property}
\b OEM Convert
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Converts text entered in the edit-box control from the Windows character set to the OEM character set and then back to the Windows set. This ensures proper character conversion when the application calls the \b AnsiToOem\plain\f5\fs20  function to convert a Windows string in the edit-box control to OEM characters. This style is most useful for edit-box controls that contain filenames. 
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Multiline}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 56F3__N}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Multiline property}
\b Multiline
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a multiline edit-box control. 
\par When the multiline edit-box control is in a dialog box, the default response to pressing the \fs17 ENTER\fs20  key is to activate the default button. 
\par If AutoHScroll is selected, the multiline edit-box control automatically scrolls horizontally when the caret goes past the right edge of the control. To start a new line, the user must press \fs17 ENTER\fs20 . If AutoHScroll is not selected, the control automatically wraps words to the beginning of the next line when necessary. A new line is also started if the user presses \fs17 ENTER\fs20  providing the Want Return property is set. The position of the wordwrap is determined by the window size. If the window size changes, the wordwrap position changes and the text is redisplayed. 
\par Multiline edit-box controls can have scroll bars. An edit-box control with scroll bars processes its own scroll-bar messages. Edit-box controls without scroll bars scroll as described in the previous paragraphs. They also process any scroll messages sent by the parent window. 
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Border (Edit Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1N4QT3N}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Border property}
\b Border (Edit Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a border around the edit box.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Uppercase}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MTWZAO}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Uppercase property}
\b Uppercase
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Converts all characters to uppercase as they are typed into the edit box.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Lowercase}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 26GWB35}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Lowercase property}
\b Lowercase
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Converts all characters to lowercase as they are typed into the edit box.
\par Type: Bool.\fs17 
\par  \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} List Box Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 350AZGE}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} List Box Properties;property pages}
\b List Box Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb 
\par \trowd\trleft744 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\} List Box Properties: Styles\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_IM.AV}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} List Box Properties: Styles}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _IM.AV}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} List Box Properties;property pages}
\b List Box Properties: Styles
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Style Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Selection\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1AMKY15}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Horiz. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2D11WW3}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Owner Draw\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3V.YMH5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Vert. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %33QKRVI}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Has Strings\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_G42HQ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    No Redraw\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IQ6HPO}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Border\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IBF55}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Use Tabstops\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %S2O0QE}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Sort\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4OHIHF5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Want Key Input\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1SC0NS2}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Notify\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %.IDK6.}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disable No Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %C4CSWG}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Multicolumn\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %H88I1R}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    No Integral Height\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6474OY}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb 
\par \trowd\trleft704 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  List Box Properties: General\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %350AZGE}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Disable No Scroll}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} C4CSWG}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Disable No Scroll property}
Disable No Scroll
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Shows a disabled vertical scroll bar in the list box when the box does not contain enough items to scroll. Without this style, the scroll bar is hidden when the list box does not contain enough items. 
\par Type: Bool.\fs17  
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Selection}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1AMKY15}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Selection property}
\b Selection
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Determines how items in a list box can be selected. Possible values are as follows:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Single (default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Only one item in a list box can be selected at a time.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Multiple\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 More than one list-box item can be selected, but the \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  and \fs17 CTRL\fs20  keys have no effect. Clicking or double-clicking an unselected item selects it. Clicking or double-clicking a selected item deselects it.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx5785\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Extended\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 The \fs17 SHIFT\fs20  and \fs17 CTRL\fs20  keys can be used together with the mouse to select and deselect list-box items, select groups of items, and select nonadjacent items. \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Owner Draw (Combo Box and List Box Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3V.YMH5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Owner Draw property}
Owner Draw (Combo Box and List Box Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Controls the owner-draw characteristics of the list box. Can be one of the following values:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1445\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 No (default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Turns off the owner-draw style.  The list box contains strings.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1445\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Fixed\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Specifies that the owner of the list box is responsible for drawing its contents and that the items in the list box are the same height. \line
\line
\b CWnd::OnMeasureItem\plain\f5\fs20  is called when the list box is created, and \b CWnd::OnDrawItem\plain\f5\fs20  is called when a visual aspect of the list box has changed.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1445\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Variable\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Specifies that the owner of the list box is responsible for drawing its contents and that the items in the list box are variable in height. \line
\line
\b CWnd::OnMeasureItem\plain\f5\fs20  is called for each item in the list when the list box is created and \b CWnd::OnDrawItem\plain\f5\fs20  is called when a visual aspect of the list box has changed. \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Has Strings}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _G42HQ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Has Strings property}
Has Strings
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that an owner-draw list box contains items consisting of strings. The list box maintains the memory and pointers for the strings so the application can use the \b LB_GETTEXT\plain\f5\fs20  message to retrieve the text for a particular item. By default, all list boxes except owner-draw list boxes have this style. An application can create an owner-draw list box either with or without this style. 
\par This style is only available if the Owner Draw property is set to either Fixed or Variable. If Owner Draw is set to No, the list box contains strings by default.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Border (List Box Properties: Style)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IBF55}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Border property}
\b Border (List Box Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a list box with a border.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Sort}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4OHIHF5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Sort property}
\b Sort
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Sorts the contents of the list box alphabetically.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Notify}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .IDK6.}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Notify property}
\b Notify
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Notifies the parent window if a list item has been clicked or double-clicked.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Horiz. Scroll (List Box Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2D11WW3}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Horiz. Scroll property}
\b Horiz. Scroll (List Box Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a list box with a horizontal scroll bar.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Vert. Scroll (List Box Properties: Styles)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 33QKRVI}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Vert. Scroll property}
\b Vert. Scroll (List Box and Combo Box Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Creates a list box with a vertical scroll bar.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} No Redraw}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IQ6HPO}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} No Redraw property}
\b No Redraw
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that the list box's appearance is not updated when changes are made. This style can be changed at any time by sending a \b WM_SETREDRAW\plain\f5\fs20  message or by calling \b CWnd::SetRedraw\plain\f5\fs20 .
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Use Tabstops}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} S2O0QE}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Use Tabstops property}
\b Use Tabstops
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Allows a list box to recognize and expand tab characters when drawing its strings. The default tab positions are 32 dialog box units. 
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Want Key Input}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1SC0NS2}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Want Key Input property}
\b Want Key Input
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that the owner of the list box receives \b WM_VKEYTOITEM\plain\f5\fs20  or \b WM_CHARTOITEM\plain\f5\fs20  messages whenever the user presses a key and the list box has the input focus. This allows an application to perform special processing on the keyboard input. If a list box uses the Has Strings style, the list box receives \b WM_VKEYTOITEM\plain\f5\fs20  messages. If a list box does not use the Has Strings style, it receives \b WM_CHARTOITEM\plain\f5\fs20  messages.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 . 
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} No Integral Height}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6474OY}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} No Integral Height property}
\b No Integral Height
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies that the size of the list box is exactly the size specified by the application when it created the list box. Normally, Windows sizes a list box so that the list box does not display partial items. 
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: True for list boxes; False for combo boxes.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Multicolumn}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} H88I1R}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Multicolumn property}
\b Multicolumn
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies a multicolumn list box that is scrolled horizontally. The \b LB_SETCOLUMNWIDTH\plain\f5\fs20  message sets the width of the columns.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Combo Box Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5T3F_SI}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Combo Box Properties;property pages}
\b Combo Box Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Enter list choices\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4FCB_GU}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb 
\par \trowd\trleft704 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  Combo Box Properties: Styles\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1V6Z.8}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Enter List Choices}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4FCB_GU}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Enter List Choices property}
Enter List Choices
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Contains the choices you want to appear in the combo box when the dialog is created. Press \fs17 CTRL+ENTER\fs20  at the end of each item in the list to move to the next line. This property is only available in resource files with Microsoft Foundation Class Library support.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Combo Box Properties: Styles}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1V6Z.8}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Combo Box Properties;property pages}
\b Combo Box Properties: Styles
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Style Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Type\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3L0_W5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    No Integral Height\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6474OY}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Owner Draw\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3V.YMH5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Auto HScroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %VJ0KBN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Has Strings\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_G42HQ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disable No Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %C4CSWG}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Sort\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4OHIHF5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    OEM Convert\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1MG16JW}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Vert. Scroll\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %33QKRVI}\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \plain\f5\uldb\fs20 
\par \trowd\trleft734 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  Combo Box Properties: General\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5T3F_SI}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Type (Combo Box Properties: Styles)}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3L0_W5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Type property}
Type (Combo Box Properties: Styles)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies the type of combo box. Can have one of the following values :
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1355\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Simple\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creates a simple combo box that combines an edit-box control with a list control. The list is displayed at all times, and the current selection in the list is displayed in the edit-box control\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1355\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Drop Down (Default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Creates a drop-down combo box. Same as a simple combo box, except the list is not displayed unless the user clicks a drop-down arrow at the right of the edit-box control portion of the combo box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1355\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Drop List\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Similar to the drop-down style, but the edit-box control is replaced by a static-text item that displays the current selection in the list.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Text Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} VYF_4O}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;Text Properties}
\b Text Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    No Prefix\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2BS3ZWD}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Simple\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IDZO.6}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    No Wrap\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %DK9Q1A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Text Align\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_AO.1X}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} No Prefix}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2BS3ZWD}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} No Prefix property}
No Prefix
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Prevents ampersands (&) in the control's text from being interpreted as the mnemonic character. Normally a string containing an ampersand is displayed with the ampersand removed and the next character in the string underlined. The No Prefix style is most often used when filenames or other strings that may contain an ampersand need to be displayed.
\par Type: Bool
\par Default: False
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} No Wrap}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DK9Q1A}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} No Wrap property}
\b No Wrap
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Displays text left-aligned. Tabs are expanded but words are not wrapped. Text that extends past the end of a line is clipped. 
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Simple}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IDZO.6}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Simple property}
\b Simple
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Disables No Wrap and Text Align. Text in static text controls with this property set does not wrap and is not clipped. In addition, setting this property means that overriding \b WM_CTLCOLOR \plain\f5\fs20 in the parent window has no effect on the control.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Text Align}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _AO.1X}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Text Align property}
\b Text Align
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Controls how text is aligned in the static-text control. Possible values are Left, Center, and Right. Set to Left when No Wrap is selected.
\par Default: Left.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Picture Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3QGEYO}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Picture Properties;property pages}
\b Picture Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Type\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %50UN_HZ}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Color\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3MOVYE5}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Icon\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %17HPU.Y}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\pard \plain\f5\b\fs20 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Type (Picture Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 50UN_HZ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Type property}
Type (Picture Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Sets the type of static graphic to display. One of the following:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1805\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Frame (Default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Displays a frame. You set the color of the frame in the Color box. Use a frame to visually group controls.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1805\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Icon\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Displays an icon in the dialog box. Use the Icon box to specify the identifier of the icon you want to display.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1805\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Displays a filled-in rectangle. You set the color of the rectangle in the Color box.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Icon}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 17HPU.Y}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Icon property}
Icon
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Sets the resource identifier of the icon to be displayed.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Color}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3MOVYE5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Color property}
\b Color
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Sets the color of a frame or rectangle to black, white, or gray. This property is not available when the picture type is an icon.
\par Default: Black.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Group Box Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 16GBTCU}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Group Box Properties;property pages}
\b Group Box Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Scrollbar Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1WXAPH}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;Scrollbar Properties}
\b Scrollbar Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_COHGJ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Align\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1KDL24K}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Align}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1KDL24K}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Align property}
Align
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 One of the following values:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1915\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 None (Default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 No special alignment is performed. The size of the scroll bar is the size specified in App Studio.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1915\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Top/Left\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the upper-left corner of the scroll bar with the upper-left corner of the containing window specified in App Studio. \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1915\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Bottom/Right\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Aligns the lower-right corner of the scroll bar with the lower-right corner of the containing window specified in App Studio.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} User Control Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3WBX1X}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;User Control Properties}
\b User Control Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Class\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %Z4URBK}\ul \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Style\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %315W_VB}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Class}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Z4URBK}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Class property}
Class
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The name of the control's Windows class. The class must be registered before the dialog box containing the control is created.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Style (User Control Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 315W_VB}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Style property}
\b Style (User Control Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 A 32-bit hexadecimal value specifying the control's style, primarily used to edit the lower 16 bits that make up a user control's sub-style.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} VBX Control Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5MYWZDU}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;VBX Control Properties}
\b VBX Control Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Disabled\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %CMB19L}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %F49AYI}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Group\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IZ6_M8}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Visible\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %M56GLY}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Tabstop\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18IEWWN}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb 
\par \trowd\trleft714 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\} VBX Properties: Styles\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8G97T.}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} VBX Control Properties: Styles}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8G97T.}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;VBX Control Properties}
\b VBX Control Properties: Styles
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 See \uldb Setting VBX Control Properties\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 39G3_NJ}\i  \plain\f5\fs20 for a description of how to use the VBX control Styles property page. For information about specific VBX control styles, see the documentation for that VBX control.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245\fi-175\tx235 \uldb 
\par \trowd\trleft234 \cellx6765 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \{bmc bm83.mrb\}  VBX Control Properties: General\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %5MYWZDU}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Accel Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} I9RZ4J}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Accel Properties;property pages}
\b Accel Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Type\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2BEWR3P}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Key\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1C9E0A5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Next Key Typed\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LTX6HC}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Modifiers\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %NTCHUS}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Key}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1C9E0A5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Key property}
Key
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The accelerator key. Can be one of the following:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2115\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Integer\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Range 0 to 255. Interpreted as ASCII or virtual-key value, depending on the Type property. Single digits are interpreted as a key value. To enter an ASCII value from 0 to 9, precede the number with two zeros (for example, 006).\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2115\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Character\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Single character optionally preceded by a caret (^) to signify a control character. \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2115\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Virtual key identifier\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Any one of the virtual-key identifiers in the drop-down list.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Modifiers}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} NTCHUS}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Modifiers property}
Modifiers
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Indicate whether the accelerator is a combination formed with Ctrl, Alt, or Shift. When the key is an ASCII key, Ctrl and Shift are not available. 
\par Type: Bool. 
\par Defaults: Ctrl is True, Alt and Shift are False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Type (Accel Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2BEWR3P}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Type property}
\b Type (Accel Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Specifies whether the Key property is an ASCII value or a virtual key (VirtKey) value.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Next Key Typed}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LTX6HC}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Next Key Typed property}
\b Next Key Typed
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 When you choose this command, the next key combination typed changes the Key and Modifiers values appropriately. The key is interpreted as a virtual key if possible.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} String Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 18C.I46}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} property pages;String Properties}
\b String Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2685\cellx4605\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %NHW4YZ}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Caption (String Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} NHW4YZ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Caption property}
Caption (String Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 A string of up to 255 bytes (single characters, escape sequences, or ASCII values). For more information about entering escape sequences and ASCII values as part of the string, see \uldb Editing a String's Properties.\plain\f5\fs20 {\v 1BMRFVO}
\par Type: Text.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Icon Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2DI3_J4}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Icon Properties;property pages}
\b Icon Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft654 \cellx2565\cellx5565\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_COHGJ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Filename\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IDCMOC}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The following properties are displayed only and cannot be modified on the property page:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Width\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_SY7KS}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Colors\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1SBJNSE}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Height\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %HPZGEQ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\li235 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Filename (Icon Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IDCMOC}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Filename property}
Filename (Icon Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The name of the file containing the icon resource.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Width (Icon Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _SY7KS}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Width property}
\b Width (Icon Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Image width in pixels. This property is determined by the currently selected target-device definition. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Height (Icon Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} HPZGEQ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Height property}
\b Height (Icon Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Image height in pixels. This property is determined by the currently selected target-device definition. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Colors (Icon Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1SBJNSE}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Colors property}
\b Colors (Icon Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Monochrome (2) or 16. This property is determined by the currently selected target-device definition.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Cursor Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} SD.S5A}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Cursor Properties;property pages}
\b Cursor Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft594 \cellx2635\cellx4815\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_COHGJ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Filename\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %12_LSO4}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 The following properties are displayed only and cannot be modified on the property page:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Width\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %IBS63P}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Hotspot\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %T.RIY}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Height\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %JY978C}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\li235 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Filename (Cursor Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12_LSO4}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Filename property}
Filename (Cursor Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The name of the file containing the cursor resource.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Width (Cursor Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IBS63P}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Width property}
\b Width (Cursor Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Image width in pixels. This property is determined by the target-device definition selected by the user. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Height (Cursor Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} JY978C}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Height property}
\b Height (Cursor Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Image height in pixels. This property is determined by the target-device definition selected by the user. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Hotspot}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} T.RIY}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Hotspot property}
\b Hotspot
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Location of the cursor's active area. In pixels, relative to the upper left corner (0,0). Set with the Set Hotspot command on the Image menu.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Bitmap Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4Z2M0Z}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Bitmap Properties;property pages}
\b Bitmap Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_COHGJ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Height\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %8VDZAD}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Filename\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %0H.OC1}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Colors\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %45H7KC}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Width\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %NCDKS_}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Save Compressed\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1OQVEX.}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Filename (Bitmap Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0H.OC1}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Filename property}
Filename (Bitmap Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The name of the file containing the bitmap resource.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Width (Bitmap Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} NCDKS_}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Width property}
\b Width (Bitmap Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Image width in pixels.
\par Type: Integer.
\par Default: 48.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Height (Bitmap Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8VDZAD}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Height property}
\b Height (Bitmap Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Image height in pixels.
\par Type: Integer.
\par Default: 48.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Colors (Bitmap Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 45H7KC}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Colors property}
\b Colors (Bitmap Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Monochrome (2) or 16. The default number of colors in a bitmap is determined by the current display device.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Save Compressed}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1OQVEX.}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Save Compressed property}
\b Save Compressed
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Saves the image in compressed format to save space; useful for large bitmaps. Only color bitmaps can be compressed.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Menu Properties: General}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 58C._PP}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Menu Properties;property pages}
\b Menu Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %_COHGJ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Menu Items Properties: General}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Q9EOR4}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Menu Items Properties;property pages}
Menu Item Properties: General
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 General Properties
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\f5\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    ID\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %1ZVR0LF}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Grayed\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %4VW.P.}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Caption\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %18DCT43}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Inactive\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2QWZK5}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Separator\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %6TIN03}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Help\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %2EN7AJO}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Checked\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %LZQV_D}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Break\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %116X529}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft604 \cellx2635\cellx4795\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Popup\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %54QG_QH}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Prompt\plain\f5\fs20 {\v %3NZJYOF}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Caption (Menu Items Properties)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 18DCT43}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Caption property}
Caption (Menu Items Properties)
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 The text that appears as part of the menu item to label it. To make one of the letters in the caption of a menu item the mnemonic key, precede it with an ampersand (&).
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Popup}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 54QG_QH}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Popup property}
\b Popup
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 If True the menu item is a pop-up menu (a submenu).
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .\fs20  
\par Default: True\fs17  \fs20 for top-level menu items in a menu bar; otherwise False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Separator}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6TIN03}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Separator property}
\b Separator
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 If True, the menu item is a separator.
\par Type: Bool. 
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Checked}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LZQV_D}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Checked property}
\b Checked
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 If True, the menu item is initially checked.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Grayed}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4VW.P.}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Grayed property}
\b Grayed
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 If True, the menu item is initially grayed and inactive.
\par Type: Bool.
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Inactive}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2QWZK5}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Inactive property}
\b Inactive
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 If the Grayed property is True, then the Inactive property is always True. Otherwise Inactive determines whether the menu item is initially inactive.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .\fs20 
\par Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Break}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 116X529}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Break property}
\b Break
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Can be one of these values:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1715\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 None (Default)\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 No break.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1715\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Column\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 For static menu-bar items, places the item on a new line. For pop-up menus, places the item in a new column with no dividing line between the columns. Setting this property affects the appearance of the menu only at run time, not in the menu editor.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1715\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Bar\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Same as Column except, for pop-up menus, separates the new column from the old column with a vertical line. Setting this property affects the appearance of the menu only at run time, not in the menu editor.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Help}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2EN7AJO}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Help property}
Help
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Right justifies the menu item in the menu bar at runtime.
\par Type: Bool\fs17 .
\par \fs20 Default: False.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Prompt}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3NZJYOF}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Prompt property}
\b Prompt
\par \pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \plain\f5\fs20 Contains text to appear in the status bar when this menu item is highlighted. The text entered here is placed in the string table with the same identifier as the menu item. Available only in resource files with Microsoft Foundation Class Library support. 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Title Bar}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} B_QPK.}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging windows;title bar}
\f4\b Title Bar
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The bar across the top of a window that contains the window's name.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm307.bmp\}\tab You can move the active window by dragging the title bar with the mouse.
\par \{bmc bm308.bmp\}\tab You can also move a window by choosing \uldb Move\plain\fs20 {\v _L7JHB} from the Control menu of the window.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm309.bmp\}\tab A dialog box can also be moved by dragging its title bar.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Maximize Button}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 06KOZ9}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} managing windows;maximizing windows;windows (App Studio)}
\b Maximize Button
\par \pard\sa115\li245 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm310.mrb\}\tab Click the Maximize button with the mouse to enlarge a window to its maximum size.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm311.bmp\}\tab A maximized window fills as much of the App Studio window as possible and has no borders.
\par \{bmc bm312.bmp\}\tab You can maximize the App Studio window only if it does not fill the screen, or if it has been minimized to an icon.
\par \{bmc bm313.bmp\}\tab Clicking the Maximize button has the same effect as choosing the \uldb Maximize\plain\fs20 {\v _TW1US} command from the Control menu.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm314.bmp\}\tab To restore a maximized window to its former size, click the \uldb Restore button \plain\fs20 or choose \uldb Restore\plain\fs20 {\v 36E.JG} from the Control menu.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Minimize Button}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} K8OY4F}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} managing windows;minimizing windows;opening windows;windows (App Studio)}
\b Minimize Button
\par \pard\sa75\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm315.mrb\}\tab Click the Minimize button with the mouse to shrink the App Studio window to an icon.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm316.bmp\}\tab As an icon, App Studio remains in memory but does not take up room on your desktop.
\par \{bmc bm317.bmp\}\tab When you minimize the App Studio window, any open documents are minimized with it.
\par \{bmc bm318.bmp\}\tab Clicking the Minimize button has the same effect as choosing the \uldb Minimize\plain\fs20 {\v JDT6VO} command from the Control menu.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm319.bmp\}\tab To restore the App Studio window and any windows that were open when you minimized it, you can double-click the icon, or click the icon and choose \uldb Restore\plain\fs20 {\v 36E.JG} from the Control menu.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Restore Button}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} HKL5OV}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging windows;restore button;sizing windows;windows}
\b Restore Button
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm320.mrb\}\tab Click the Restore button with the mouse to return the active window to the size and position it had before you chose the Maximize command.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Window Sizing Border}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4LAC0JJ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} arranging windows;sizing windows;window borders;windows}
\b Window Sizing Border
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The border around a window. You can drag a border with the mouse to change the window's shape and size.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm321.bmp\}\tab Drag the top, bottom, or side border to size in one direction only.
\par \{bmc bm322.bmp\}\tab Drag a corner of the border to size in two directions at once.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm323.bmp\}\tab You can also size a window by using the \uldb Size\plain\fs20 {\v _L_DLB} command on the Control menu.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Status Bar}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 21C6I75}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} status bar}
\b Status Bar
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Displays information about the current activity or mode.
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm324.bmp\}\tab When a command is selected, the left side of the status bar briefly describes the command.
\par \{bmc bm325.bmp\}\tab The left side of the status bar also indicates operations in progress.
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm326.bmp\}\tab The right side of the status bar shows whether keys such as \fs16 CAPS LOCK\fs20  or \fs16 NUM LOCK\fs20  are turned on.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} menu bar (App Studio)}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} I4K93P}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} menu bar}
\b Menu Bar
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The menu bar displays the App Studio menus. The following are always available: File menu, Edit menu, Resource menu, Window menu and Help menu. The Layout menu is available when the Dialog editor is active, and the Image menu is available when the Image editor is available.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} File menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EEUPM0}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} File menu;menus (App Studio)}
\b File Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2025\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
F\plain\b\fs20 ile\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Y5P9__}
\ul N\plain\fs20 ew...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+N\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Create a new resource script, resource file, bitmap, icon, or cursor. Opens the \uldb New dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v XWP9__}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 33LK6CU}
\ul O\plain\fs20 pen...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+O\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Open a resource script, resource, .EXE, .DLL, .DRV, bitmap, icon, or cursor file. Opens the \uldb Open dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 7EUXRO}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} TDYPG_}
\ul C\plain\fs20 lose\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Close the active resource script, resource file, or bitmap, icon, or cursor file.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1O06SPW}
\ul S\plain\fs20 ave\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+S\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Save the active resource script, resource file, or bitmap, icon, or cursor file. \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 72TQUO}
Save \ul A\plain\fs20 s...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Save and rename the active resource script, resource file, or bitmap, icon, or cursor file. Opens the \uldb Save As dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 7EYJ8F}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1K5GY9M}
Sav\ul e\plain\fs20  All\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Save all the active resource scripts, resource files, or bitmap, icon, or cursor files.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L_LHB_}
Set \ul I\plain\fs20 ncludes...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Set names of included header and resource files. Opens \uldb Set Includes dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v FG..AL}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 331JP47}
Ins\ul t\plain\fs20 all Controls...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Install VBX controls. \uldb Opens Install Controls dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 17SGW8P}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2005\cellx3055\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4C3Y_KP}
E\ul x\plain\fs20 it\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Exit App Studio.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Edit menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EETKJI}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Edit menu;keyboard shortcuts;menus (App Studio)}
\fs20 Edit Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2145\cellx3015\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
E\plain\b\fs20 dit\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2ACE4VF}
\ul U\plain\fs20 ndo\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+Z\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Undo an action.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2ACAVVF}
\ul R\plain\fs20 edo\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+A\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Redo the last undo.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Y5OYM0}
Cu\ul t\plain\fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+X\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Delete to the Clipboard.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2AC367P}
\ul C\plain\fs20 opy\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+C\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Copy to the Clipboard.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} TQNTH_}
\ul P\plain\fs20 aste\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+V\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Paste from the Clipboard.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 17I7QA6}
\ul D\plain\fs20 elete/C\ul l\plain\fs20 ear\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 DEL\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Delete selection or clear the graphic selection.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} SDX_64}
\ul S\plain\fs20 ymbols...\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs17 CTRL+I\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 View and change symbol names and values. Opens the \uldb Symbol Manager.\plain\fs20 {\v 27JKMC}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} HRZJKS}
\ul F\plain\fs20 ind String...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+F3\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Search for text. Opens the \uldb Find String dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v _HRZI.}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2125\cellx2995\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 42QN.8C}
Find \ul N\plain\fs20 ext String\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F3\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Search for next occurrence of text.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Resource menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11ZG58Z}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} keyboard shortcuts;menus (App Studio);Resource menu}
\fs20 Resource Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
R\plain\b\fs20 esource\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2J072N4}
\ul N\plain\fs20 ew...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+R\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Create a new resource. Opens the \uldb New Resource dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 3OJ7BVL}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3ZVD_WB}
\ul O\plain\fs20 pen\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Open an existing resource.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3X.DES5}
Open Binary \ul D\plain\fs20 ata\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+B\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Open a resource for binary editing.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} US3GV3}
\ul P\plain\fs20 roperties...\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs17 ALT+\line
ENTER\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Change a resource's properties. Opens the appropriate property page for the resource.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1YZGZVU}
\ul I\plain\fs20 mport...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Import a bitmap, cursor, or icon into your project. Opens the \uldb Import Resource dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v G7A084}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1V0GZVU}
\ul E\plain\fs20 xport   \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Export a bitmap, cursor, or icon and save it in a separate file. Opens the \uldb Export Resource dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v CBA084}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1704CBW}
Class\ul W\plain\fs20 izard...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+W\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Connect user-interface objects to code.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2ACCW0K}
\ul T\plain\fs20 est\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+T\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Test a dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7DHPAF}
\ul V\plain\fs20 iew as Popup\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+U\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 View a menu resource as a pop-up menu.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} NR6Z_P}
New De\ul v\plain\fs20 ice Image...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Create new icon or cursor images. Opens the \uldb New Icon Image dialog box\plain\fs20 {\v 3A.O0EK} or the \uldb New Cursor dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 3A.O0EK}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1XGSO2I}
Open Devi\ul c\plain\fs20 e Image...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 View and edit an icon or cursor image for a device. Opens the \uldb Open Icon Image dialog box\plain\fs20 {\v 3A.O0EK} or the \uldb Open Cursor dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 3A.O0EK}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4C9X.D}
De\ul l\plain\fs20 ete Device Image\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Delete an icon or cursor image for a device.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4AU4G6P}
New \ul S\plain\fs20 tring\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Add a string to a string table.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft464 \cellx2625\cellx3505\cellx5875\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 28BR_KK}
New \ul A\plain\fs20 ccelerator\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 INS\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Add an accelerator to an accelerator table.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Layout menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .VEX5B}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} keyboard shortcuts;Layout menu;menus (App Studio)}
\fs20 Layout Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5775\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215\tx6355 
\par\intbl L\plain\b\fs20 ayout\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215\tx6355 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215\tx6355 
\par\intbl Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245\tx6355 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} C37XC7}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \ul A\plain\fs20 lign Controls\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Align controls along one edge or center them on an axis.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} C.LJOQ}
\ul S\plain\fs20 pace Evenly\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Equalize spacing between three or more aligned controls.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DIZR4V}
\ul C\plain\fs20 enter in Dialog\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Center controls in a dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} L01.ME}
Arrange \ul B\plain\fs20 uttons\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Align buttons at right edge or bottom of dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} BS.JNX}
\ul M\plain\fs20 ake Same Size\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Equalize dimensions of selected controls.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ZIH9M1}
S\ul i\plain\fs20 ze to Content\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 F7\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Size a control to fit its contents.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} LKU022}
\ul G\plain\fs20 rid Settings...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Set dimensions of layout grid. Opens the \uldb Grid Setting dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v M2WZ5F}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2875\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11BKDCP}
Set Tab Order\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs17 CTRL+D\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx6355 \fs20 Set order of \fs17 TAB\fs20  key movement among controls.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Image menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1RMPOFN}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Image menu;keyboard shortcuts;menus (App Studio)}
\fs20 Image Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2835\cellx5965\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Im\plain\b\fs20 age\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245\tx7195 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2AXH1FN}
\ul Z\plain\fs20 oom In/Out\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 M\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Toggle between actual-size and magnified views.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 18488MO}
\ul P\plain\fs20 ickup Color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 COMMA\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Pick up color from a bitmap, icon, or cursor.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MVKWQG}
Set \ul H\plain\fs20 otspot\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Set a cursor's hot spot.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DS0LRB}
\ul I\plain\fs20 nvert Colors\ul \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Invert colors in the selection.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} SXGVR9}
Flip \ul V\plain\fs20 ertical\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 Y\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Flip the selection along its vertical axis.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} SXGVQV}
Flip Ho\ul r\plain\fs20 izontal\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 X\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Flip the selection along its horizontal axis.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ESZY20}
\ul E\plain\fs20 dit Foreground\line
 Color...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Edit the current foreground color. Opens the \uldb Color dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v J30H68}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DO7G97}
Ge\ul t\plain\fs20  Palette Colors...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Load colors from a file. Opens the \uldb Get Palette Colors dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v DKF4O7}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1UEOKDO}
\ul S\plain\fs20 ave Palette Colors...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Save colors to a file. Opens the \uldb Save Palette Colors dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v I0_MNC}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1ESMPE}
Draw \ul O\plain\fs20 paque\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 O\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Make background color opaque.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2665\cellx5815\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 92O5DC}
\ul G\plain\fs20 rid Settings...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Show and hide pixel and tile grids; change grid dimensions. Opens the \uldb Grid Settings dialog box.\plain\fs20 {\v 5IVKSD}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Help menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EEWLME}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Help menu;keyboard shortcuts;menus (App Studio)}
\fs20 Help Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2785\cellx6075\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
H\plain\b\fs20 elp\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2775\cellx6055\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0M.IC7}
\ul C\plain\fs20 ontents\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F1\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Open the help system's Contents screen.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2775\cellx6055\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0ZUX6.}
\ul S\plain\fs20 earch...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Search for a keyword in Help. Opens the search dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2775\cellx6055\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EQBISV}
\ul P\plain\fs20 roduct Support\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Get information on product support.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2775\cellx6055\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 79CQ2.}
\ul A\plain\fs20 bout App Studio...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Get information about your copy of App Studio. Opens the About App Studio dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Window menu (App Studio)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} GMU_FR}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} keyboard shortcuts;menus (App Studio);Window menu}
\fs20 Window Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1915\cellx2775\cellx5755\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
W\plain\b\fs20 indow\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8JZBO}
\ul C\plain\fs20 ascade\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Arrange windows in overlapping pattern.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 25BDEC}
\ul T\plain\fs20 ile Horizontal\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Arrange windows one above the other.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 25P0E_}
Tile \ul V\plain\fs20 ertical\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Arrange windows side-by-side.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 151N0M9}
\ul A\plain\fs20 rrange Icons\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Arrange icons along bottom of App Studio window.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1IG6ZV3}
Tool\ul b\plain\fs20 ar\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Show or hide the toolbar.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Y3CZNO}
\ul S\plain\fs20 tatus Bar\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Show or hide the status bar.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 134KOW_}
Hide/Show Palette\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 F2\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Hide or show the graphics or control palette.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft224 \cellx1905\cellx2755\cellx5655\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} U7YHOO}
Show \ul P\plain\fs20 roperties\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 SHIFT+F2\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Show or hide the Properties window.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \f1\b\fs16 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Control menu}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} M8WWHF}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Control menu;keyboard shortcuts;menus (App Studio)}
\f4\fs20 Control Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1615\cellx2685\cellx5665\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Control\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Use to\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 36E.JG}
\ul R\plain\fs20 estore\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Restore any App Studio window to its former size and location.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _L7JHB}
\ul M\plain\fs20 ove\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Reposition any App Studio window or an open dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _L_DLB}
\ul S\plain\fs20 ize\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Change the size of any App Studio window.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} JDT6VO}
Mi\ul n\plain\fs20 imize\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Shrink an App Studio window to an icon.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _TW1US}
Ma\ul x\plain\fs20 imize\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Enlarge an App Studio window to fill the available space.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2JYJV2}
\ul C\plain\fs20 lose\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+F4\line
CTRL+F4 \fs20 (child windows)\fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Quit App Studio or close an active child window or an open dialog box.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} VFKODN}
S\ul w\plain\fs20 itch To...\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+ESC\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 List all currently open applications and activates the one you select. Appears only on the main App Studio window.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft204 \cellx1595\cellx2695\cellx5755\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EF2LYI}
Nex\ul t\plain\fs20 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Switch to another child window. Appears only on the App Studio resource editor menus.\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} control palette}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} YG.BG}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} control palette;palettes}
Control Palette
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx1855\cellx2995\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Tool\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Button\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} HQ46XI}
Pointer\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm327.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1MSOAX2}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Pushbutton\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm328.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} K7P78Y}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Check Box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm329.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5FEQ.}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Edit Control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm330.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} HS11KA}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Combo Box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm331.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1N19VAL}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 List Box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm332.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 268MZJZ}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Group Box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm333.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} I6MSRA}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Radio Button\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm334.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5UG5.}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Static Text\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm335.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} X6.ALJ}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Picture Control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm336.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} KF_6EU}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Horizontal Scroll\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm337.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3Q2T_RW}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Vertical Scroll\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm338.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 20O2SD}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 User-Defined Control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm339.mrb\}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1745\cellx3355\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} H1GAU8}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 VBX Control\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 Button varies from control to control\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} main toolbar (App Studio)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12THHKL}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} keyboard shortcuts;main toolbar;toolbars}
Main Toolbar
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3205\cellx4105\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Tool\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Toolbar button\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut key\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\ri45 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2JNK0K0}
New resource script\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\ri45 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm221.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+N\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5PQM6}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Open file\fs16 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs20 \{bmc bm340.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+O\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5TC2X}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Save active file\fs16 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs20 \{bmc bm341.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+S\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5VOL7}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Undo\fs16 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs20 \{bmc bm247.bmp\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+Z\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .5SFL7}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Redo\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm249.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+A\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ERDFTO}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New dialog box\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm51.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+1\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 638162}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New menu resource\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm40.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+2\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} E3UMTZ}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New cursor\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm130.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+3\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8EDGFU}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New icon\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm132.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+4\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CRWGFX}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New bitmap\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm128.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+5\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5HQE_M0}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New string table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm19.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+6\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4U06P2}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 New accelerator table\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm7.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+7\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} W.D_S3}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 Symbol browser\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm36.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+I\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 10GPONK}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs20 ClassWizard\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm280.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 CTRL+W\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph-5\trleft234 \cellx2355\cellx3225\cellx4165\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3OITSBF}
\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs20 Context-sensitive Help\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm342.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 SHIFT+F1\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs20 
\par 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} graphics palette}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} MI24HD}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} graphics palette;graphics palette;keyboard shortcuts;palettes;toolbars}
Graphics Palette
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \plain\fs20 \line
\b Tool\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Button\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Description\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut\line
key\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2O8XSVM}
Eraser \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm152.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Paints over the image with the current background color when you press the left mouse button, and fills areas of the current foreground color with the current background color when you press the right mouse button.\fs17 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 SHIFT+P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2CW2W_}
\fs20 Pencil\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm153.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws in a constant width of one pixel.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 P\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1AQE8UC}
\pard\intbl\sa95 \fs20 Selection\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm139.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Selects the area to edit.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 S\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ZFWMRL}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Brush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm154.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Colors area, whose size and shape are determined by the option selector.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 D\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4V19B0}
\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs20 Airbrush\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm155.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Colors pixels randomly distributed around the center of the brush.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs17 A\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3P1SCH4}
\pard\intbl\sa235 Fill\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \{bmc bm169.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Fills the area with the drawing color or the background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \fs17 F\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8RDG.T}
\pard\intbl\sa95 \fs20 Line \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm162.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Draws a line.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 L\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} Z4LON2}
Color pickup\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm199.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Makes any color on the bitmap the current drawing color or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 COMMA\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5TX1SS}
Zoom\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm183.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Selects a magnification factor as well as the portion of the image that appears in the "zoomed" view.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 Z\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FLDEH2}
\fs20 Framed rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm163.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx1315\tx1795\tx2035 Draws a rectangle framed with the foreground or background color\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx1315\tx1795\tx2035 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 R\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} WOKGSN}
Framed round rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm165.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle framed with the foreground or background color and with rounded corners.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 N\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2SDPMCD}
Framed ellipse \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm167.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws an ellipse framed with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 E\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 21NCZ6I}
Filled rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm164.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle filled with a foreground color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 SHIFT+R\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 8L2L3.}
\fs20 Filled round rectangle\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm166.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Draws a rectangle filled with the foreground or background color and with rounded corners.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \fs17 SHIFT+N\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1555\cellx2605\cellx4905\cellx6035\pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} OYJRJ_}
\pard\intbl\sa235 Filled ellipse \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \{bmc bm168.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Draws an ellipse filled with the foreground or background color.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \fs17 SHIFT+E\fs20 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa35\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sb115\sa35\sl-215\li245 \b 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} dialog toolbar (App Studio)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _PIAX4}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa35\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} dialog toolbar;keyboard shortcuts;toolbar shortcuts;toolbars}
Dialog Toolbar
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1615\cellx2775\cellx4765\cellx6135\pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \plain\fs20 \line
\b Tool\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Toolbar\line
button\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 \line
Description\cell\pard \pard\keepn\intbl\sa35\sl-215 Shortcut key\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1KHBF41}
Test\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm93.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Tests controls.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+T\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3MW2_9P}
\fs20 Align left\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm70.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their left side.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+LEFT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IWBNT6}
\fs20 Align right\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm71.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their right side.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+RIGHT ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1JIT.F7}
\fs20 Align top\f7 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \{bmc bm72.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their top edges.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+UP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} AINEWW}
\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs20 Align bottom\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \f7 \{bmc bm73.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 Aligns the selected controls along their bottom edges.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+TOP ARROW\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _VDBEI}
\fs20 Center vertical\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm76.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Centers controls vertically in the dialog.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+F9\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _V6LEO}
\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \fs20 Center horizontal\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235 \f7 \{bmc bm77.mrb\}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \f4 Centers controls horizontally in the dialog.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+SHIFT+F9\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 37T2C9}
\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 \fs20 Space evenly across\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa95\tx8635 \f7 \{bmc bm74.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 Spaces controls evenly between the leftmost and the rightmost control selected.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+LEFT ARROW \fs20 or\fs17  ALT+RIGHT ARROW \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 0_66P4}
\pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215\tx8635 \fs20 Space evenly down\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa235\tx8635 \f7 \{bmc bm75.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\tx8635 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Spaces controls evenly between the topmost and the bottommost control selected.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 ALT+UP ARROW \fs20 or\fs17  ALT+DOWN ARROW \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .7SNTO}
\fs20 Make same width\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm78.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 Sizes controls to be the same width.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+-\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .33OEF}
\fs20 Make same height\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm79.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Sizes controls to be the same height.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+\'5c\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 94EIXK}
\fs20 Make same size\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm80.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Sizes controls to be the same size.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+=\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1595\cellx2745\cellx4785\cellx6115\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J29.CH}
\fs20 Snap to grid\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa95 \f7 \{bmc bm69.mrb\}\f4 \cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 Turns grid on and off.\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95 \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \fs17 CTRL+G\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} icon toolbar (App Studio)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12TDJQL}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Icon toolbar;keyboard shortcuts;toolbar shortcuts;toolbars}
\b Icon Toolbar
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm343.mrb\}
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} cursor toolbar (graphics editor)}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1LDGH14}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} cursor toolbar;keyboard shortcuts;toolbar shortcuts;toolbars}
\b Cursor Toolbar
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm344.mrb\}
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0001}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Find String dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} _HRZI.}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Find String dialog box;strings}
\b Find String Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Find String dialog box to locate a string or a string's resource identifier in the string table. See \uldb Finding a String in the String Table\plain\fs20 {\v N7FO2}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Find What\plain\fs20 {\v %1JDKY1S}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Match Case\plain\fs20 {\v %TJKGFZ}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Find What}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1JDKY1S}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \fs20 Type the string you want to find.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Match Case}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} TJKGFZ}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Select to find a string that exactly matches the case of what you typed.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0002}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Install Controls dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 17SGW8P}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Install Controls dialog box;VBX controls}
\b Install Controls Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Install Controls dialog box to add or remove VBX controls on the App Studio tool palette. See \uldb Using VBX Controls with the Control Palette\plain\fs20 {\v 1MOSMR2}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2125\cellx4285\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Control Filename\plain\fs20 {\v %B686N3}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %4ABI3U}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2125\cellx4285\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %1W9WUE5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Installed Files\plain\fs20 {\v %O6J3QN}\cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Control Filename}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} B686N3}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \fs20 Type the name of the VBX control file you want to install, or select it from the list.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Directories}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4ABI3U}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Double-click a directory entry to display files from that directory in the Files box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Drives}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1W9WUE5}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Click the arrow to display a list of all attached drives. Click a drive from that list to display directories and filenames from the selected drive.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Installed Files}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} O6J3QN}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Lists the VBX control files currently installed. To remove a VBX control file, select a file in the list and choose Remove .
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0003}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Layout Grid Settings dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} M2WZ5F}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} grid settings;Layout Grid Settings dialog box}
\b Layout Grid Settings Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Grid Settings dialog box to:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm345.bmp\}\tab Turn Snap to Grid on or off for all dialog box editor windows
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm346.bmp\}\tab Change the size of the alignment grid cells
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1825\cellx3985\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Snap to Grid\plain\fs20 {\v %XGKTQO}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Width\plain\fs20 {\v %169HD.Z}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1825\cellx3985\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Height\plain\fs20 {\v %K6QPAB}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\li245 \plain\fs20 The Snap to Grid option in the Grid Settings dialog box controls the alignment grid for all open editor windows. You also turn Snap to Grid on or off for an individual dialog box editor window by using the Snap to Grid button \{bmc bm69.mrb\} on the dialog editor toolbar. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Snap to Grid}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XGKTQO}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Use this option to turn the alignment grid on or off for all dialog editor windows.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Width}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 169HD.Z}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Enter the width in DLUs for the alignment grid. Minimum width is 4.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Height}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} K6QPAB}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Enter the height in DLUs for the alignment grid. Minimum height is 4.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0004}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Set Includes dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FG..AL}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} include files;Set Includes dialog box}
\b Set Includes Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Set Includes dialog box to
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm347.bmp\}\tab Change the name of the symbols header file.
\par \{bmc bm348.bmp\}\tab Include files containing shared (read-only) or calculated symbols.
\par \f5 \{bmc bm349.bmp\}\tab Include files containing resources that are added to your project at compile time.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4 See \uldb Changing the Name of the Symbols Header File\plain\fs20 {\v 32INRD6}, \uldb Using Shared (Read-Only) or Caluculated Symbols\plain\fs20 {\v XRHZ6S}, or \uldb Including Resources from Other Files\plain\fs20 {\v LJS7AD}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx3305\cellx7575\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Symbol Header File\plain\fs20 {\v %IHTGHD}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Read-Only Symbol Directives\plain\fs20 {\v %3PGT_NI}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx3305\cellx7575\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Compile-Time Directives\plain\fs20 {\v %2GH9W5}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 What you type in the Read-Only Symbol Directives box or the Compile-Time directives box is included in the resource file exactly as you type it. Make sure what you type does not contain any spelling or syntax errors.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol Header File}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IHTGHD}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Type the name you want App Studio to use for your current project's symbols file.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Read-Only Symbol Directives}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3PGT_NI}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Use this box to include .H files containing shared (read-only) or calculated symbols.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Compile-Time Directives}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2GH9W5}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Use this box to include resource files that are added to your project at compile time.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0005}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} About App Studio dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} BC76QK}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} About App Studio dialog box}
\b About App Studio Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 The App Studio About Box diplays the App Studio version number, a copyright statement, and the name and organization of the person licensed to use the software. 
\par Also displayed are the amount of available memory, whether or not a coprocessor is present, and the amount of disk space on the current drive. 
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0006}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Next Key Typed dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6RUYRJ}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Next Key Typed dialog box}
\b Next Key Typed Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Next Key Typed dialog box to cancel the Accelerator Table property page's Next Key Typed command.
\par If you do not choose Cancel, the next key combination you type will be used to update the current accelerator table definition. Changes are made to the Key box and the options under Modifier and Type as appropriate. 
\par Accelerator values entered using the Next Key Typed command are entered as virtual keys if possible.
\par See \uldb Accelerator Table Editor Topics\plain\fs20 {\v topic_acced}.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0007}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} New Resource dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3OJ7BVL}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} New Resource dialog box}
\b New Resource Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the New Resource dialog box to choose the type of resource you want to create.
\par Select the resource you want in the Resource Type box and choose OK.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0008}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} New Symbol or Change Symbol dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 27JKMC}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} New Symbol or Change Symbol dialog box;symbols}
\b New Symbol or Change Symbol Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the New Symbol dialog box to define the name and, if necessary, a value for a new symbolic resource identifier. This same dialog box appears when you ask to change the name or value of an unassigned symbol.
\par See \uldb Symbol Editor Topics\plain\fs20 {\v topic_symbed}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Name\plain\fs20 {\v %4U_81I}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Value\plain\fs20 {\v %4Z046V}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 To change the name or value of a symbol that is already assigned to a resource, use the ID box on the resource's general property page. Choose a symbol name from the list, or type the symbol name followed by an equals sign and a new symbol value.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Change Symbol Name}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4U_81I}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The name of the symbol you are defining or changing. See \uldb Symbol Name Restrictions\plain\fs20 {\v 4LQVE7}.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Change Symbol Value}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 4Z046V}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The value of the symbol. When defining a new symbol, you normally accept the value automatically supplied by App Studio. See \uldb Symbol Value Restrictions\plain\fs20 {\v FTFZG}.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0009}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol Browser dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} OOHYWB}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} symbol browser}
\b Symbol Browser Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Symbol Browser dialog box to 
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm350.bmp\}\tab Examine the symbols in your current resource file: their names,  their values, and whether or not they are in use.
\par \{bmc bm351.bmp\}\tab Add or change symbols.
\par \f5 \{bmc bm352.bmp\}\tab Move to the appropriate editor for the resource that uses the symbol.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4 See \uldb Symbol Editor Topics\plain\fs20 {\v topic_symbed}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx6455\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Name\plain\fs20 {\v %2NHJL2D}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Value\plain\fs20 {\v %1350TC0}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx6455\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   In Use\plain\fs20 {\v %12SH2A0}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Show Read Only Symbols\plain\fs20 {\v %U9.GHV}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx6455\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Used by\plain\fs20 {\v %I8ZPQ1}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard \fs16 \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol Name}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2NHJL2D}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \fs20 The name of the symbol.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol Value}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1350TC0}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The symbol's numeric value.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol In Use}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 12SH2A0}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 A check mark in this column indicates that the symbol is being used by one or more resources. The resource or resources are listed in the Used by box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Show Read-Only Symbols}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} U9.GHV}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Normally the Symbol Browser displays only the  modifiable resources in your resource script file. Select this option to display read-only resources as well. Modifiable resources display as bold text; read-only resources display as normal text.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Symbol Used by}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} I8ZPQ1}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Shows the resource or resources using the symbol selected in the symbols list. To move to the editor for a given resource, select the resource in the Used by box and choose View Use.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000a}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Image dialog boxes}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3A.O0EK}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} New Cursor Image dialog box;New Icon Image dialog box;Open Cursor Image dialog box;Open Icon Image dialog box}
\b Icon or Cursor Image
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the New Icon Image or New Cursor Image dialog box to add a new device image to the list of devices available in the image editor. 
\par Use the Open Icon Image or Open Cursor Image dialog box to change the device definition currently being used by the image editor. 
\par Device images are defined in APSTUDIO.INI.
\par See \uldb Creating, Selecting, and Deleting Images\plain\fs20 {\v 79KI_AO}.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000b}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Image Grid Settings dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5IVKSD}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} grid settings;Image Grid Settings dialog box}
\b Image Grid Settings Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the image editor's Grid Settings dialog box to
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm353.bmp\}\tab Hide or display the image editor pixel grid
\par \f5 \{bmc bm354.bmp\}\tab Turn on the tile grid and adjust the dimensions of each tile if necessary
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4 See \uldb Displaying and Hiding Pixel Grids\plain\fs20 {\v 2_5GZ.W}.\uldb  \plain\fs20 
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Pixel Grid\plain\fs20 {\v %IJF2XT}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Tile Grid\plain\fs20 {\v %EG16VF}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Width\plain\fs20 {\v %3OB7ZSQ}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Height\plain\fs20 {\v %2C1AZMF}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 In order to display the pixel grid, the image editor pane must have a magnification factor of 4 or greater. See \uldb Changing the Magnification Factor\plain\fs20 {\v 0A23N}.
\par When the tile grid is displayed, the behavior of the image editor changes in ways that make it easy to edit toolbar button bitmaps. See \uldb Editing Toolbar Bitmaps\plain\fs20 {\v 1_54OGX}.
\par The tile grid cannot be displayed unless the pixel grid is turned on.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Pixel Grid}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} IJF2XT}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Select this option to display grid lines along pixel boundaries in all open image editor windows.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Tile Grid}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EG16VF}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Select this option to display a tile grid in the image editor. A tile grid, normally 16 pixels wide by 15 pixels tall, provides a visual reference for the easy editing of toolbar bitmaps.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Tile Grid Height}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3OB7ZSQ}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The width in pixels of the tile grid.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Tile Grid Width}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2C1AZMF}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The height in pixels of the tile grid.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000c}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} File Open dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7EUXRO}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} File Open dialog box}
\b Open Dialog Box
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Open dialog box to open a resource script file (.RC), resource file (.RES), or executable file. You can also use the Open dialog box to open a bitmap (.BMP), cursor (.CUR), or icon (.ICO) file for stand-alone editing.
\par \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Name\plain\fs20 {\v %.MDZB6}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %PUQ0GS}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %ZCGG4A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   List Files of Type\plain\fs20 {\v %11F_P8P}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can double-click a filename in the list box to open the file.
\par You can select a file type from the List Files of Type box to display a list of all files with a predetermined type from the current drive and directory.
\par If you type a pattern using a wildcard (* or ?) in the File Name box and press \fs16 ENTER\fs20 , the list box displays files matching that pattern. This file type subsequently appears as the default when you open this dialog box again.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} File Name}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} .MDZB6}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Enter the name of a file to open. If you type a pattern using a wildcard (* or ?) and press \fs16 ENTER\fs20 , the list box displays files matching that pattern.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Directories}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ZCGG4A}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Double-click a directory entry to display files from that directory in the Files box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Drives}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} PUQ0GS}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Click the arrow to display a list of all attached drives. Click a drive from that list to display directories and filenames from the selected drive.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Files of Type}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11F_P8P}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Click the arrow to display a list of file types. The filename extension determines the file type. Click a file type to display a list of all files of that type from the current drive and directory in the File Name box.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000d}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Save As dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 7EYJ8F}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Save As dialog box}
\b Save As Dialog Box
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Save As dialog box to save the current file to a different filename, a different file format, or both. See \uldb Working with Resources and Files\plain\fs20 {\v OC22GM}.
\par \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Name\plain\fs20 {\v %87EW2U}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %PUQ0GS}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %ZCGG4A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Save Files as Type\plain\fs20 {\v %1EQ06VC}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm355.bmp\}\tab Typing a filename with a file extension automatically saves the file in the format associated with the file extension.
\par \{bmc bm356.bmp\}\tab The list of types in the Save File as Type box varies depending on the type of the active file.
\par \{bmc bm357.bmp\}\tab If you type a pattern using a wildcard (* or ?) in the File Name box and press \fs16 ENTER\fs20 , the list box displays files matching that pattern. 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} File Name}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 87EW2U}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Enter the name of the file to save. If you type a filename without an extension, it is saved with the default file extension, and as the default file type, indicated in the Save File as Type box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Files of Type}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1EQ06VC}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Click the arrow to display a list of file types. The filename extension determines the file type. Click a file type to display a list of all files of that type from the current drive and directory in the File Name box.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000e}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Import Resource dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} G7A084}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Import Resource dialog box}
\b Import Resource Dialog Box
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Import Resource dialog box to add a bitmap, icon, or cursor to the current resource file.
\par \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Name\plain\fs20 {\v %E2DU_G}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %PUQ0GS}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %ZCGG4A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   List Files of Type\plain\fs20 {\v %11F_P8P}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can double-click a filename in the list box to import the resource.
\par You can select a file type from the List Files of Type box to display a list of all files with a predetermined type from the current drive and directory.
\par If you type a pattern using a wildcard (* or ?) in the File Name box and press \fs16 ENTER\fs20 , the list box displays files matching that pattern.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Import Resource File Name}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} E2DU_G}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Enter the name of a bitmap, icon, or cursor file to import. If you type a pattern using a wildcard (* or ?) and press \fs16 ENTER\fs20 , the list box displays files matching that pattern.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:000f}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Export Resource dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CBA084}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Export Resource dialog box}
\b Export Resource Dialog Box
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Export Resource dialog box to save the currently selected bitmap, icon, or cursor as a separate file.
\par \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Name\plain\fs20 {\v %FSG_GC}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %PUQ0GS}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %ZCGG4A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   List Files of Type\plain\fs20 {\v %1EQ06VC}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 You can select a file type from the List Files of Type box to display a list of all files with a predetermined type from the current drive and directory.
\par If you type a pattern using a wildcard (* or ?) in the File Name box and press \fs16 ENTER\fs20 , the list box displays files matching that pattern.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Export Resource Filename}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FSG_GC}
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Enter the name of a bitmap, icon, or cursor file to export. If you type a filename without an extension, it is saved with the default file extension, and as the file type, indicated in the Save File as Type box.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0010}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Get Palette Colors dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DKF4O7}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Get Palette Colors dialog box}
\b Get Palette Colors Dialog Box
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Get Palette Colors dialog box to load a previously saved custom color palette into the App Studio image editor. See \uldb Creating Color Palettes\plain\fs20 {\v 9XGNTV}.
\par \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Name\plain\fs20 {\v %57ZX_RM}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %PUQ0GS}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %ZCGG4A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   List Files of Type\plain\fs20 {\v %11F_P8P}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Since the graphics editor has no way to restore the default color palette, save the default color palette under a name such as STANDARD.PAL or DEFAULT.PAL so that you can restore the defaults without having to quit and restart App Studio.
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Get Palette Filenames}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 57ZX_RM}
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Enter the name of the color palette you want to load.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0011}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Save Palette Colors dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} I0_MNC}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Save Palette Colors dialog box}
\b Save Palette Colors Dialog Box
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the palette colors dialog box to save the current custom color palette as a .PAL file. See \uldb Creating Color Palettes\plain\fs20 {\v 9XGNTV}.
\par \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Name\plain\fs20 {\v %N2IVWO}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Drives\plain\fs20 {\v %PUQ0GS}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Directories\plain\fs20 {\v %ZCGG4A}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   List Files of Type\plain\fs20 {\v %1EQ06VC}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Since the graphics editor has no way to restore the default color palette, save the default color palette under a name such as STANDARD.PAL or DEFAULT.PAL so that you can restore the defaults without having to quit and restart App Studio.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Save Palette Filename}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} N2IVWO}
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Enter the name of the color palette (.PAL) file you want to use to store the current custom color palette.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0012}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} New File dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} XWP9__}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} New File dialog box}
\b New File Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the New File dialog box to create a new App Studio file.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1585\cellx6075\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   File Type\plain\fs20 {\v %2JV3FVH}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa115\sl-215\li245 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Use Microsoft Foundation Classes\plain\fs20 {\v %O14LR}\par\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 When you choose the Use Microsoft Foundation Classes option, the following features specific to the framework are available in App Studio:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm358.bmp\}\tab ClassWizard
\par \{bmc bm359.bmp\}\tab Menu prompt strings
\par \{bmc bm360.bmp\}\tab Support for VBX controls
\par \f5 \{bmc bm361.bmp\}\tab List Contents for combo-box controls
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} File Type}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 2JV3FVH}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 \f4 The type of new file to create: resource script (.RC), compiled resource file (.RES), bitmap (.BMP), icon (.ICO), or cursor (.CUR).
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} File New Use MFC}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} O14LR}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Select this option to include Microsoft Foundation Class Library support in new resource script files.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0013}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} RHX83B}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Font dialog box}
\b Font Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Font dialog box to change the typeface and point size of the font in the dialog box you are editing.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul    Font\plain\fs20 {\v %EA4FD9}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Size\plain\fs20 {\v %5X5K_3T}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx1725\cellx3885\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Sample\plain\fs20 {\v %1RCDDRB}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa235\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 If you want to use a font that is not shown in the list of  fonts (for example, "Helv" for 3.0 compatibility), edit the RC file directly and change the FONT statement in the DIALOG section.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} EA4FD9}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Choose the name of the font you want from the list of installed fonts.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font Size}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 5X5K_3T}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Choose the point size for the dialog box font.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Font Sample}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1RCDDRB}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The Sample box displays a sample of the font and size you have chosen.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0014}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Color dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} J30H68}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Color dialog box}
\b Color Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Color dialog box to change the current image editor foreground or background color. The color you choose replaces the current color on the image editor graphics palette.
\par You can also use the Color dialog box to create a custom color and add it to the Custom Colors palette. Choose Define Custom colors, and create a color by adjusting its hue, saturation, and luminosity or by specifying its red, green, and blue values. 
\par See \uldb Creating Color Palettes\plain\fs20 {\v 9XGNTV}.
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Options
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2565\cellx4725\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Basic Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %146..0U}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Custom Colors\plain\fs20 {\v %1L.J9OP}\cell\intbl\row
\pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 When you choose Define Custom Colors, the following additional options are available:
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2555\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Color Refiner Box\plain\fs20 {\v %KDOZJS}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Luminosity Bar\plain\fs20 {\v %DRRJAJ}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2555\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Color/Solid Box\plain\fs20 {\v %11XP0QT}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Hue, Sat, Lum\plain\fs20 {\v %145.BI7}\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft124 \cellx2555\cellx5635\pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \ul \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Red, Green, Blue\plain\fs20 {\v %11B_UW2}\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa95\sl-215 \cell\intbl\row
\pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Tips and Troubleshooting
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Custom color definitions are saved in APSTUDIO.INI and are automatically loaded the next time you start App Studio.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Basic Colors}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 146..0U}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The basic colors available for use in the image editor. The color you choose replaces the current color on the graphics palette.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Custom Colors}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 1L.J9OP}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Custom colors available for use in the image editor. The color you choose replaces the current color on the graphics palette.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Color Refiner Box}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} KDOZJS}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 The color refiner box shows all the nonsolid colors available on your system. Drag the color refiner cursor to the area of the box that shows the color you want.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Luminosity Bar}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} DRRJAJ}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 Drag the arrow up or down to adjust the luminosity of the color.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Color/Solid box}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11XP0QT}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 This box shows the changes you make to the hue, saturation, and luminosity of a color. As you make changes, the new nonsolid color is displayed on the left side of the box. The closest solid color is displayed on the right side of the box.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Hue, Sat, Lum}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 145.BI7}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245 These boxes show the number values for the hue, saturation, and luminosity of the selected color.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Red Green Blue}
\pard\sb115\sa95\sl-215\li245  {\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11B_UW2}
These options show the red, green, and blue values of the selected color.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0015}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Test dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 6RJXJF}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Test dialog box}
\b Test Dialog Box\plain\fs20 
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 When you are testing a dialog box in the App Studio dialog editor, you can:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 \{bmc bm362.bmp\}\tab Type in text, select from combo-box lists, turn options on and off, and choose commands.
\par \{bmc bm363.bmp\}\tab Test the tab order.
\par \{bmc bm364.bmp\}\tab Test the grouping of controls such as radio buttons or check boxes.
\par \f5 \{bmc bm365.bmp\}\tab Test the dialog box's keyboard interface: controls that have mnemonic keys defined for them.
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4 Connections to dialog-box code made using ClassWizard are not simulated during dialog-box test mode. 
\par Icons in a dialog box are displayed as the App Studio icon symbol during test mode.
\par When you test a dialog box, it is usually displayed at a location relative to the main App Studio program window. If the dialog box's Absolute Align property is selected, the dialog box is displayed at a position relative to the upper-left corner of the screen.
\par \page
{\up +}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up +} BROWSE0001:0016}
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Change In-use Symbol dialog box}
{\up !}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up !} DisableButton("btn_up");DisableButton("btn_index")}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 11IF.VN}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 {\up K}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up K} Change In-use Symbol dialog box}
\b Change In-Use Symbol Dialog Box
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 Use the Change Symbol dialog box to change the name or value of an in-use symbol. 
\par Note: to change a symbol that is in use in more than one place, exit App Studio and use the Visual Workbench editor to edit the symbol header file directly.
\par Select the symbol you want to change and choose View Use. App Studio places you in the ID box of the resource's property page. 
\par You can also bypass the Change Symbol dialog box and change a symbol by moving directly to the resource's property page. 
\par To change the name of a symbol, type the new name or select a symbol name from the list.
\par In most cases you can let App Studio take care of assigning the symbol value for you. However, if you need to change the value of an in-use symbol, use the ID box on the resource's property page to enter a new value. Type the symbol name followed by an equals sign and the new symbol value. For example, 
\par \pard\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f8\fs18 IDC_RADIO1=2551
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \f4\fs20 
\par 
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Help in Brief}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} FO4_P1}
\pard\keepn\keep\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \b \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !closewindow("more")}\plain\b\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\keep\sa115\sl-215\li245 Help in Brief
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Using Context-Sensitive Help\plain\fs20 {\v %27C9I0P}\ul 
\par \ul \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Commands on the Help Menu\plain\fs20 {\v %3OHMAKN}\uldb 
\par \ul \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Help on Dialog Boxes\plain\fs20 {\v %ZE8T9J}\uldb 
\par \ul \plain\ul\fs20 \{bmc bm24.mrb\}\ul   Help on Property Pages\plain\fs20 {\v %E51XDR}
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 27C9I0P}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Using Context-Sensitive Help
\par \pard\sa195\sl-215\li715\fi-655\tx235 \plain\fs20 \{bmc bm5.mrb\}  To obtain context-sensitive help:
\par \pard\sa75\sl-215\li455\fi-215\tx455 1.\tab Click the context-sensitive help button \{bmc bm342.mrb\}
\par \tab - Or -
\par \tab Press \fs17 SHIFT+F1\fs20 .
\par \tab The cursor changes to a question mark with an arrow.
\par 2.\tab Click on the area of the screen for which you'd like help.
\par \tab Help opens to the appropriate topic.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} 3OHMAKN}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \b Commands on the Help Menu
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx2395\cellx7175\pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135\brdrb\brdrs \plain\fs20 Command\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135\brdrb\brdrs Description\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx2395\cellx7175\pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135\brdrb\brdrs \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 Contents\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 Contents of App Studio Help\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx2395\cellx7175\pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 Search\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 Opens the search box for App Studio help\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx2395\cellx7175\pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 Product Support\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 This command opens a help file with information about obtaining technical support.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft134 \cellx2395\cellx7175\pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 About App Studio\cell\pard \pard\intbl\sa75\sl-215\li135 This command opens the About box for the product. It contains the version number of the product, which is useful when your are seeking technical support. It also contains information about your system.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} ZE8T9J}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 Help on Dialog Boxes
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 To get help on an open dialog, click the Help button or press \fs16 F1\fs20 . Help describes the purpose of the dialog box and provides specific information for each of the controls\{bmc bm366.bmp\}list boxes, check boxes, edit boxes, option buttons, and so on\{bmc bm367.bmp\}in the dialog.
\par In some cases, help for the dialog box also contains troubleshooting information and tips on using the dialog box.
\par \page
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} E51XDR}
\pard\keep\sb115\sa275\sl-215\li245 \b Help on Property Pages
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 To get help on an open property page, click the Help button or press \fs17 F1. \fs20 Help describes each property on the page, giving defaults and variable types where appropriate.
\par \page
{\up $}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up $} Version}
{\up #}{\footnote\pard\plain{\up #} CO98.U}
\pard\keepn\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \uldb \b \{bmc bm1.mrb\}{\v !CloseWindow("version")}\plain\b\fs20 
\par \pard\keepn\sa115\sl-215\li245 App Studio Help
\par \pard\sb115\sa115\sl-215\li245 \plain\fs20 APSTUDIO.HLP
\par \pard\sa115\sl-215\li245 Version 1.00.0118
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }