{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Tms Rmn;}{\f1\fdecor Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}{\f3\fmodern Modern;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s244 \f3\fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f3\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f3\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2 \b\f3 \sbasedon0\snext2 Head;}{
\s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 \f3\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext3 1st indent;}}{\info{\title Help file}{\subject GNU Chess help file}{\author Daryl K Baker}{\keywords Help GNU Chess}{\operator Daryl K Baker}{\creatim\yr1990\mo12\dy26\hr9\min47}
{\revtim\yr1991\mo1\dy20\hr12\min54}{\version24}{\edmins159}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern8351}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  main_index} ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $}  Help Index} +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  index:0005} GNU Chess Help Index
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par This index list all GNU Chess help topics
\par 
\par To learn how to use Help choose "Using Help" from the Help menu or press F1.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 How to Play
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 \tab 
To move a piece, place the mouse cursor over the piece, click the left mouse button once, move the cursor to the desired square and click again.  To enter a move using the keyboard enter F2.  A dialog box will be displayed.  Enter the move in algebraic n
otation.  To castle enter o-o, for a queen side castle enter o-o-o.  To promote a pawn onto the last rank enter the move followed by the first letter of the piece to promote to.  (ie q for queen, r for rook, b for bis
hop, n for knight.) To abort a move or change your mind about what piece to move click on the square the piece was originally at.
\par \pard 
\par \pard \tab When the computer is calculating its move you can abort the look ahead and force it to immediately take a move by entering Control C.
\par \pard 
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 Commands
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 \tab {\uldb GNU Chess menu commands}{\v chess_menu}
\par \pard 
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 Background Information
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 \tab {\uldb Article: What is GNU Chess}{\v article_1}
\par \tab {\uldb Article: Experiences of communal developlment}{\v article_2}
\par \tab {\uldb GNU Chess Copyright notice}{\v copyright}
\par \tab {\uldb GNU Chess move generator}{\v move_gen}
\par \tab {\uldb GNU Chess heurisitics}{\v heuristics}
\par \tab {\uldb GNU Chess sample match with MACH}{\v sample_game}
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  chess_menu}} {\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $}  GNU Chess menu commands}} {\fs16\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {
\fs16\up6 +}  index:0010}} GNU Chess Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par \pard All the commands to control actions of the game are controlled via menus.  Select the specific menu item you require help on.
\par \pard 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-1440\li1800\tx1800 \f3\fs20 {\uldb File}{\v command_file}\tab Save and restore a game
\par {\uldb Edit}{\v command_edit}\tab Change board setup
\par {\uldb Options}{\v command_options}\tab Adjust game options
\par {\uldb Skill}{\v command_skill}\tab Adjust the degree of difficulty of the game
\par {\uldb Side}{\v command_side}\tab Choose what side to have to computer play
\par {\uldb Colors}{\v command_colors}\tab Sets up screen colors
\par {\uldb Hint}{\v command_hint}\tab Provides a suggested move
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\tx1800 Help\tab Enters the help system
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_file}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} File Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0005}} File Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par The File menu allows the saving and restoring of games.  Specific functions available are:
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 \f3\fs20 New\tab Starts a new game.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Save\tab Saves an in progress game.  A dialog box will be opened to enter a file name
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Open\tab Loads a saved game. A dialog box will be opened to enter a file name
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 List\tab Lists the moves of a game in print-out format.  A dialog box will be opened to enter a file name.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Exit\tab Exit the game.
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_edit}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Edit Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0010}} Edit Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par The Edit menu allows the board setup to be changed and moves to be taken back.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 \f3\fs20 Setup Board\tab 
Choosing this command places the game into setup mode.  A new board setup is provided.  You adjust the setup by selecting a piece with mouse and placing it on the desired square.  To remove a piece from the board pick it up a blank square and 
place it on the piece to be removed.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Undo\tab Removes the last played move
\par Remove\tab Removes the last complete move ( Basically 2 undo's)
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Force\tab Toggles manual mode.  Lets user enter moves for both sides or allows use by two players as an electronic chess board.
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_options}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Options Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0015}} Options Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par The Options menu allows adjustment of the behavior of the game.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 \f3\fs20 Tone\tab When checked the computer beeps after taking a move.  To make the game silent select this option, the check mark will be removed.
\par Coordinates\tab When checked the algebraic notation will be printed along the edge of the board
\par Search Stats\tab When checked a status box will display the moves GNU chess is evaluating for use.
\par Test\tab This selects a speed test.  The numbers presented in the results box can be compared to other versions of GNU chess.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Hash\tab Enables internal move hashing
\par Book\tab When checked GNU chess uses its opening book
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Both\tab Auto Play mode.  Choose any square to abort.  Sometimes after aborting autoplay the game will perform a bogus move.  Use UNDO or REMOVE to cancel.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 A Window\tab Sets an internal move generator value
\par B Window\tab Sets an internal move generator value
\par Contemp\tab Sets an internal move generator value
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_skill}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Skill Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0020}} Skill Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par Adjusts playing ability of GNU Chess.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 \f3\fs20 Time\tab Presents a dialog box to choose the time limits for the game.
\par Random\tab This cause GNU chess to randomly select among equally rated moves.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Easy\tab 
When checked this enables "easy" mode, where the computer not allowed to think while the user takes a move.  To have GNU Chess play a stronger game uncheck this option.  The look ahead is aborted when the mouse is clicked.
\par \pard \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 Depth\tab Presents a dialog box to set the maximum number of moves to look ahead.
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_side}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Side Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0025}} Side Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par Allows the user to choose which side the computer will play
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-1440\li1800\sa240\tx1800 \f3\fs20 Reverse\tab Rotates board 180 degrees.
\par Switch\tab Switch sides with the computer. (If computer is black it becomes white)
\par Black\tab Computer plays black
\par White\tab Computer plays white
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_colors}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Colors Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0030}} Colors Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par 
\par \pard Allows the colors of the screen to be set.  The color settings are saved in the file CHESS.INI in the windows directory.  Choosing "Default Colors" restores color settings to program defaults.
\par \pard\plain \s2 \b\f3 \page {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 #}  command_hint}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 $} Hint Menu Command}} {\plain \f3\fs16\up6 +{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245 \f3\fs20 {\fs16\up6 +}  command:0035}} Hint Menu
\par \pard\plain \f3\fs20 
\par \pard The Hint menu provides a suggested move.  The hint is based on GNU chess's projection of what move the user will take when calculating its look-ahead.  The quality of the hint is dependent on the amount of time GNU chess has to think.
\par \pard \page 
\par }