{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\froman Times;}{\f4\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f5\fswiss Chicago;}{\f6\froman New York;}{\f7\fswiss Geneva;}
{\f8\fmodern Monaco;}{\f9\froman Palatino;}{\f10\fmodern Courier;}{\f11\fnil BI Letter Gothic BoldSlanted;}{\f12\fnil I Letter Gothic Slanted;}{\f13\fnil CB Helvetica Condensed Bold;}{\f14\fnil CLB Helvetica Condensed Black;}
{\f15\fnil CBI Helvetica Condensed BoldObl;}{\f16\fnil CL Helvetica Condensed Light;}{\f17\fnil CLBI Helvetica Condensed BlackO;}{\f18\fnil CLI Helvetica Condensed LightOb;}{\f19\fnil Letter Gothic;}{\f20\fnil B Letter Gothic Bold;}
{\f21\fnil C Helvetica Condensed;}{\f22\fnil CI Helvetica Condensed Oblique;}{\f23\fnil MT Extra;}{\f24\fnil MS San Serif;}{\f25\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs18\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote text;}{\s251\fi-245\li360\sb120\sa60\sl-240 
\f25\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon253\snext251 heading 4;}{\s252\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 
\snext10 heading 1;}{\s255\li360\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal Indent;}{\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\fi-240\li600\sb60\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext2 Jli;}{
\s3\li120\sb60\sl-240\keep\tx520\tx920\tx1320\tx1720\tx2120 \f10\fs16\lang1033 \snext3 Ex;}{\s4\li120\sb160\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa1;}{\s5\fi-240\li360\sl-240\tx360 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb1;}{\s6\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240\tx360 
\f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lb2;}{\s7\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext6 Lp1;}{\s8\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext9 Th;}{\s9\li115\sb60\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
\snext9 Tp;}{\s10\li120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 Normal 2;}{\s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext0 bitmap;}{\s12\li120\sb120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Sa2;}{\s13\fi-240\li360\sb60\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \snext13 Jl;}{
\s14\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon8\snext9 Th2;}{\s15\li115\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \b\f25\fs16\lang1033 
\sbasedon8\snext9 Th3;}{\s16\li115\sb200\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 Normal 3;}{\s17\fi-1800\li1915\sb120\sa40\sl-240\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrbtw\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1915 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Thh;}{
\s18\fi-1800\li1915\sb60\sl-240\tx1915 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext18 Tph;}}{\info{\author Dale Rogerson}{\creatim\yr1993\mo5\dy5\hr13\min25}{\version1}{\edmins279}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords800}{\nofchars4729}{\vern16417}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj\hyphhotz0 {\*\template C:\\APPS\\WFW\\WHAT31.DOT}\sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 {\plain \f25\fs18\up6\lang1033 
{\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK2}{\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK3}{\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK4}${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Net Gomuku Help Index}} {\plain \f25\fs18\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} Index}} {\plain \f25\fs18\up6\lang1033 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 +} 1}} {\plain \f25\fs18\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} index;contents}} Net Gomuku Help Index
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 Overview
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\b Net Gomuku}
 is a Network DDE version of the classic game of Gomuku.  Network DDE is part of Microsoft Windows for Workgroups version 3.1. Network DDE is not available in the standard Microsoft Windows version 3.1 operating system.
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
\par For those who do not have Network DDE, {\b Net Gomuku} can be played against the computer.  However, the computer is a stupid player that only randomizes its moves.
\par 
\par Gomuku is also known by the names "Five in a Row" and "Pente."
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 How To Play
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
\par {\uldb Playing the Game}{\v play}
\par {\uldb Playing Against the Computer}{\v computer}
\par {\uldb Playing Over the Network}{\v net}
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 
\par Menu Commands
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\uldb File New Game...}{\v new}
\par {\uldb Options Random}{\v random}
\par \pard\plain \s253\li120\sb120\sa60\sl-240 \b\f25\fs20\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 \page }{\fs18\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Playing the Game}} {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} play}} {\fs18\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 +} 10}} Playing the Game
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
Net Gomuku is in many ways similar to an advanced form of tic-tac-toe.  It is played on a 15 x 15 grid.  The object of the game is to get five of your pegs in a row either horizontally, vertically, or diagonally while preventing your opponent from doing t
he same thing.
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 The players take turns putting their pegs on the board.  A player can place a peg into any open hole.  Once a peg is placed in a hole it can not be moved.
\par The strategy is to place the pegs so you have multiple ways to get five in a row.  Four consecutive peg in a row with a free hole on each end already represents a win.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 \{bml board.bmp\}\page {\fs18\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Playing Against the Computer}} {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} computer}} {\fs18\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 +} 20}} {\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K
} random}} Playing Against the Computer
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
With Network DDE you can play against the computer in addition to playing against an opponent over the network.  The only problem with this is that the computer player is very dumb.  It just randomly selects holes into which to place pegs.  So don't expec
t a challenging game against this computer opponent. 
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 To play against the computer, select the {\uldb File New Game...}{\v new}{\b  }command from the menu.  In the dialog box select the middle radio button, "{\b Random Computer Player}," and then press the {
\b Okay }button.  {\b Net Gomuku} will start another version of its self which you will see as an icon at the bottom of the screen.  You can maximize the icon if you want to watch from the computer's perspective.
\par This feature was added to {\b Net Gomuku }to demonstrate that the same code which communicates over network DDE can also communicate over standard DDE.  When {\b Net Gomuku}
 plays against the computer it plays against another instance of itself over standard DDE.
\par The source code to Net Gomuku is avaliable on the Microsoft Developer Network CD, and writting a better computer player is left as an exercise to the reader.
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 \page {\fs18\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Playing Over the Network}} {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 
\f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 #} net}} {\fs18\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 +} 30}} {\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} network;netdde; network dde
}} Playing Over the Network
\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 The main feature of {\b Net Gomuku} is playing an opponent over the network like the {\b Hearts} card game included with Windows for Workgroups. 
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \s10\fi-270\li360\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 1.  Start {\b Chat} (and challenge your opponent. Let's call your opponent SPOT. (Chat is one of the Windows for Workgroups Accessories.  It lets network users
 interactively type messages to each other. You do not need Chat to play the game. It justs makes it easier to communicate with your opponent.)
\par \pard \s10\li120\sl-240 
\par \pard \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240 2.  SPOT starts {\b Net Gomuku} (NETGO.EXE)
\par \pard \s10\li120\sl-240 
\par \pard \s10\fi-270\li360\sl-240 3.  SPOT selects the last radio button labeled "wait for a Net Challenger." and presses the OK button.
\par \pard\plain \s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \{bml wait.bmp\}
\par \pard\plain \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240\tx1620 \f25\fs20\lang1033 4.  SPOT tells you via Chat that he is waiting for you to connect.
\par \pard \s10\li120\sl-240 
\par \pard \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240 5.  You start {\b Net Gomuku}.
\par \pard \s10\li120\sl-240 
\par \pard \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240 6.  You select the first radio button labeled "NetDDE Player".
\par \pard\plain \s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f25\fs20\lang1033 \{bml spot.bmp\}
\par \pard\plain \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 7.  You type in the name of SPOT's computer and press the {\b Okay }button.
\par \pard \s10\li120\sl-240 
\par \pard \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240 8  You wait for {\b Net Gomuku} to connect to SPOT's computer.
\par \pard \s10\li120\sl-240 
\par \pard \s10\fi-360\li480\sl-240 9  Start placing your pegs....
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
\par See also: {\uldb File New Game...}{\v new}
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 \page {\fs18\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} File New Game...}} {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs18\up6 #} new}} {\fs18\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 +} 40}} {\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} new game, new, connecting...}} File New Game...

\par \pard\plain \s10\li120\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 This menu command ends the current game and allows you to start a new game with a different network player or with the computer.  Selecting this menu brings up the following dialog box.
\par \pard\plain \s11\li120\sb120\sa120 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\plain \fs20\lang1033 \{}{\plain \fs20\lang1033 bml random.bmp}{\plain \fs20\lang1033 \}}{\plain \fs20\lang1033 
\par }\pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 This dialog box determines if you are going to play a {\uldb network player}{\v net}, the {\uldb computer}{\v computer}
, or wait for a challenger from the network.  For more information on this dialog box see {\uldb Playing Against the Computer}{\v computer} and {\uldb Playing Over the Network}{\v net}
\par \pard\plain \s254\li120\sb280\sa120\sl-320 \b\f25\lang1033 \page {\fs18\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 $} Options Random}} {\fs18\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {
\fs18\up6 #} random}} {\fs18\up6 +{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 +} 50}} {\fs18\up6 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 {\fs18\up6 K} random play}} Options Random
\par \pard\plain \li120\sb80\sl-240 \f25\fs20\lang1033 
Selecting this option causes the computer to randomly place your pegs for you.  Why you might want to do this I don't know.  I just put it in for debugging purposes.  With this option you can play over network DDE against an opponent who picks holes at ra
ndom, pit a random player against a random player over network DDE, or have the computer's random player play against your random player.  Boy, what fun!
\par \page 
\par 
\par {\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK2}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK3}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK4}}